Okay, I got the red smoke.
NORTH AND SOUTH OF THE SMOKE. WEST OF
THE SMOKE.
>> OKAY, COPY. West of the smoke. I'm
looking at danger close now.
>> I'M IN CLEAR hot clear.
>> It's been It's been fascinating to watch
your journey over the last couple years.
>> It's been kind of like that.
>> Well, that's I think just life. Um, I
was thinking about I was really looking
forward to sitting down and talking with
you. We originally obviously linked up
over a change agents episode. They had a
full page of production notes. I don't
think I even asked you a single question
cuz we just started talking about other
stuff from like the global war on terror
time.
>> I remember
>> and it was fantastic. And then I was
like, "Oh my god, we have to get this
person in person." And uh I was thinking
about it. I have I have to ask a
question tangential to your old job
based off of my understanding of the
agency based off of movies.
>> I love the movie Charlie Wilson's War.
>> Oh,
>> and I heard you talking one time about a
particular character in that movie and I
am hoping
>> that you actually got to work with this
person.
>> Yes.
>> Who is my mentor and one of my closest
friends? Did he actually break
somebody's office glass with a hammer or
wrench? He used his fist first of all.
And I'll tell you what, they they sort
of eased off in the movie because in the
movie the the window that he was
breaking
>> Yeah.
>> was the division chief,
>> which is a career-ending
>> 100%.
>> In real life, it was the deputy director
for operations.
>> Oh boy. of the whole CIA.
>> So, it was the boss's boss.
>> I said, "How did they not take you out
in handcuffs?" I asked him one time and
he said, "Everybody's afraid of me
because they think I'm crazy."
And there's something to be said about
that. He his nickname at the agency,
we're talking about Gus Avricatus, who
was played by Philip Seymour Hoffman in
the film Charlie Wilson's work.
>> Such a spectacular actor as well.
>> Oh, what there? They could not have
found a more perfect actor. Did he did
he make it pretty well?
>> Um, no. Gus Gust was far filthier than
uh
>> So, this is the point where the reality
of it wouldn't even have been made. Was
he as much of a legend as he came off to
be in that movie?
>> Yes.
>> That is unbelievable.
>> Yes. And you know, I'll tell you, well,
I could tell you a lot about Gus. His
nickname was Dr. Dirty. And I said to
him one time, I said, "Why Dr. Dirty?
I've found you to be anything but
dirty." And he said, "Cuz I'll stab you
in the back just like everybody else in
this building will, but then I'm going
to spin you around and stab you in the
front."
>> Was he just a spies spy?
>> Yeah, he was a mean son of a [__]
>> Is that what they're looking for? Did
that place turn him into that or was
that just who he was?
>> No, that's what that was the draw to
bring him in. I'll tell you why he was
so unique and he was very very proud of
this. He came into the agency in those
early days when everybody was coming
from Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Brown,
Princeton and he was from Pit. He had a
degree in Soviet studies from Pit and he
was kind of an ethnic, you know,
full-blooded Greek from from Aquipa,
Pennsylvania, which was another reason
why we hit it off. I I went into
operational training at the sort of
halfway point in my career and um and he
says to me, "Isa, are you Greek?" And I
said, "Yeah,
where are you from? Where's your family
from?" And he said, "Oh, we're from I
think it was Sparta." Which makes sense.
And um so we started talking and I said,
"You you speak with a Pittsburgh accent.
You from Pittsburgh?" And he said,
"Yeah, I'm from Aquipa, you?" And I
said, "Yeah, I'm from Newcastle. Go
Steelers." Right. And I pulled out my
Steelers credit card that I still have
in my pocket. Right. Yeah. I got my
There it is. I should probably cover up
the numbers.
>> Totally.
>> But uh yeah, my Steelers credit card. So
we hit it off on the very first day. So
he got me assigned to him
um as his student, his underling.
>> As you switched over to operations.
>> As I switched over to operations. And
the cool thing about that was I was
already mid-career. Everybody in the
class was mid-career. It was called the
operations course accelerated OCA. And
so if you are just joining the CIA and
you're going into operations, you got to
go to this desk for 6 months. Yeah.
>> And learn what that desk does and then
you go to this office for 6 months or 6
weeks or whatever and learn what they
do. We didn't need any of that stuff cuz
we had already been in for 6 8 10 years.
So, we went straight into ops and um he
used to say, "The job of an operations
officer is to recruit spies to steal
secrets. That's what you're going to
learn to do here. Recruit spies to steal
secrets." And um
you know, one of the things that I
remember about him in training was that
the other trainers didn't like him
>> and some of them were like openly rude
to him and he just took it. And I said I
said why are these [__] so mean to
you? He's like mean? That doesn't even
the word doesn't even register in my
brain. You want to see mean? You get to
know me. He says and I thought that's
kind of cool. I'll tell you another
thing about Gust.
Gus was incredibly generous to me with
his time and his expertise. So I
finished the class. I go out to Athens
in counterterrorism and this is going to
sound kind of silly. We had just gotten
this new fangled thing called electronic
mail, right? E mail. So, I remember this
when this occurred as well, too.
Something I have to tell my children,
but they're like, "What are you talking
about? That existed forever."
>> We were all like gathered around the
computer like, and I remember the
station chief says, "Wait a minute. Wait
a minute. are you saying that my people
can just write one of these emails and
it goes back to somebody at headquarters
and then that person can respond and the
tech guy says yeah and he goes I don't
like it I don't like it one bit like
don't worry sir one day the agency will
develop the ability to read everybody so
it's going to be fine
>> imagine
>> so which came like a year later I can
only imagine yeah
>> so Gust and I he was the very first
email I sent. So I said, "Gus, just
arrived in Athens. Just wanted you to
know I'm in place." And he was like,
"Great. Let's talk every day." Great. So
we would do things like
I got to be Look, I got to be careful.
So I'm going to tell you one thing. I
said, "Gus, I emailed him one day. I
said, "Gus, there's there's a guy just
arrived here, and this guy's got to be
like target number one for me, but he's
from this outcast country, so he's not
showing up at the diplomatic cocktail
parties. How do I get this guy? I just
got to get in front of him. I know he's
not going to accept a pitch, but I want
to scare the [__] out of him is what I
want to do." And he's like, "You know
what? I did something in the Middle East
once back in 68 or what whatever the
year was.
Here's what you do. And I even say in my
first book, I wish I had thought of it
because it was so brilliant. It was so
simple, so brilliant what I did. I
looked much younger then. I was 35
years old, didn't have any gray hair.
And um and I loaded a a book bag, like a
gym bag full of books, and I went to
this guy's house. He lived in a very
closein suburb. And uh I knew what car
uh was his. And so I took my book bag
and I broke the side view mirror off of
his car. Just broke it. Snapped it right
off. Then I picked it up and I went to
his next door neighbor's house, a Greek
lady.
>> Grab that thing.
>> Sorry. No worries.
>> Greek lady. And um and I said to her,
"Is this your car? I I broke this off by
accident." And she says, "No, no, it's
not my car. It's the guy next door." Um
and she says to me, then he's not Greek.
I was like, "Okay, sorry. Thank you.
Sorry to bother you." So I go next door,
knock on the guy's door, he answers the
door, and I said,
he's like, "Wait a minute. Wait a
minute. I don't speak Greek." I said,
"Oh, you speak English?" He said,
"Yeah." I said, "Oh, I speak English,
too." I said, "Sir, I was walking down
the street and my bag accidentally got
caught on the mirror and I broke the
mirror off and the lady next door told
me it was your car and I wanted to say
how sorry I was and I I wanted to uh I
want to pay for it." He's like, "A man,
now
now I got to take it to the shop and
nothing but trouble." I said, "I am so
sorry. Please allow me to pay for it.
May I have a glass of water?"
in his culture,
you can't decline a request for
hospitality.
>> And he goes,
"Wait right here."
Well, I could see inside the house his
little girl was playing on the on the
carpet. She looked to be about four. So,
I I walked inside the house and I get
down on my knees and I said to her, "Uh,
Shuism, what is your name in Arabic?"
She was Mick and she said, "My name is
Miriam." And I said, 'How old are you,
Miriam? I'm four. He comes back in with
the water and uh and he says to me,
"What exactly do you want?"
And I said, "I'm not going to insult
you. I'm from the CIA in Washington. I
know who you are. I know what you do
here. And I'm here to tell you that your
leader, he's gonna die. You can die with
him or you can come on the side of the
good guys. And I'm not going to ask
twice. You have until 10:00 tomorrow
morning to make your decision. I said,
"This is my business card. It's my true
name.
10:00." And I set it down and I'm
looking at him and he says, "I admire
your courage in approaching me. Very
creative, but I'm offended that you
would do it in my own home in front of
my child." And I said, "My apologies."
And I walked out. Today's episode is
brought to you by Black Rifle Coffee.
Spring is a reset. Longer days, more
visibility, no more hiding behind winter
habits. Out with the excuses, in with
discipline. Black Rifle Coffee didn't
adopt grit when it became marketable.
They were founded on it by veterans who
understand that courage is consistency.
It's showing up early. It's doing the
reps no one sees. If you want simple and
strong, start with just black. Whole
bean if you run the grinder. Ground if
you keep it straightforward. Pods if
efficiency matters. No trendy flavor
experiments. No sugar masking weak
beans. Just bold American roasted coffee
that does its job every single morning.
And if you want rotation without
sacrificing backbone, the supply drop
variety pack delivers a lineup of pod
roast designed to keep you sharp while
maintaining standards. Different
profiles, same mission. This isn't
lifestyle branding. It's daily
discipline in a cup. New season, new
expectations, higher bar. You can grab
just black or the supply drop variety
pack on Amazon or go direct to black
rifle coffee.com and have it shipped
straight to your door. Black Rifle
Coffee, veteranfounded, American
roasted. Stay deliberate. Keep the
standard high. The next morning,
everybody's gathered around my phone.
We're all just sitting there looking at
the phone like 1 minute to 10. It rings.
And I was like, I knew I scared him. I
knew I scared him. And so he said, "I've
given your uh offer some thought. When
can we meet?" I said, "In two hours at
such and such a hotel, the lobby had a
coffee shop."
We we had every table. We took every
table. Every table had an armed CIA
officer there. And I said, "Come alone
and come unarmed."
>> And he came alone. And I got up. I gave
him a big bear hug to make it look
normal. And I patted him down for
weapons. He was unarmed. And he sat down
and uh asked me what I wanted. I was
very specific with what I wanted. And I
said, "What do you want?" He said, "What
are you offering?" I said, "Relocation
if you want it. I mean, not not
tomorrow. We're going to have some work
to do, but if you want to move to the
United States, he didn't. He wanted to
move to another Arab country." Uh, which
was fine. We gave him a more money than
one person can carry at a time.
>> And uh and even my station chief came up
to me and he said,
>> "I've been here for 25 years. This was
the most creative operation I've ever
seen." And this was my first tour. And I
said, "You know, I wish I could take
credit for it." Well, what do you mean?
He says, I said, "Gus told me to do
this. It was his idea." And he's like,
"Fucking Gust." He hated him. He hated
him. And then poor Gus, the the older he
got, the sicker he got. He, as you might
imagine, he had a blood pressure
problem.
>> Yeah.
>> And that led to a series of minstrokes.
And every time he would have a
minstroke, he would get meaner to the
point one time,
>> an actual personality shift.
>> It was a personality change. It got to
the point where he somehow got it into
his head that I told somebody that I had
seen him escorted out of the building
with the cops. I said, "What are you
talking about?
>> 3 weeks ago, you told Allan that." I
said, "Gustin, I've been in Pakistan for
6 months. I don't know what you're
talking about. I just got back from
Pakistan a couple days ago. I haven't
seen Allan in years. I don't know what
you're talking about." But someone
actually called security because the way
he was screaming at me in the hallway.
And a mutual friend of ours was like,
"Look, he keeps having these many
strokes. He's not himself." And then it
got to the point, and this is kind of a
sad sort of ignaminious way to end such
a proud career.
He got it into his head that George
Tennant, who was the CIA director at the
time, had denied him a good parking
space. And he started emailing George.
>> Yeah. Directly. cuz everybody in the
agency knows George's email address. I
mean, it's, you know, George tenant CIA.
>> Say George CIA. George. Tenant.
>> Exactly. It's not hard to figure out.
>> It's not like he's an alias or
something. And so he was like, you know,
why'd you take away my parking space?
And of course, nobody ever responded to
him, but it got to the point where
Tenant finally said,
>> it's time for Gus to go.
>> And that's how his career ended.
>> Yeah. The worst part about that is I've
been around some people now um stroke
and also the early onset of dementia.
They don't real to them what they are
experiencing is real.
>> They're their own worst enemy because
they don't see the personality shift and
everybody they think that everybody else
has gone crazy.
>> Yes.
>> Good luck having that conversation.
>> You're absolutely right. My dad, God
rest his soul. My I I had the best dad
anybody could ever hope to have in life.
He was a very gentle soul. PhD in music
education. 44 years as an elementary
school principal in the public school
system. Just a an all-around good guy
and he got uh Parkinson's disease and
sometimes Parkinson's is also associated
with Parkinsonian dementia.
So I used to I was working at the United
Nations at the time. My kids were living
in Ohio with my ex-wife. So I used to
drive either from Washington or from New
York every other weekend, pick up the
kids, go to my mom and dad's house. So
my dad had to have back surgery and he
came out of the surgery with something
called hospital psychosis, which is an
actual thing where if you're already
prone to dementia,
>> it's the um the stuff that they give you
to knock you out for the surgery. Yeah.
The anesthesia, it it makes you crazy.
>> That doesn't sound awesome.
>> No. And sometimes you can finally come
out of it over a period of weeks or
months. Sometimes you never come out of
it. So
he calls me. I'm in New York. He calls
me at like midnight one night and he
said, "Um, I need for you to call the
congressman." I said, "Which
congressman?" "My congressman." I said,
"Why?" He said, "Alqaeda was in my my
hospital room and they tried to recruit
me and I got a tip off the congressman."
But I knew what he was talking about
because that day on the news we had
disrupted the FBI disrupted uh what was
the name of that attack uh for something
attack in New Jersey.
>> Mhm.
>> Before it took place. They grabbed these
six al-Qaeda guys. So their pictures
were on the news all day that day. And
he imagined that they were in the room,
the hospital room.
>> Yeah.
>> So he said, "If you don't call the
congressman, I'm calling the sheriff." I
said, "Dad, we're all over these guys.
It's all part of the operation." I said,
"Don't worry about it." He goes, "Oh,
you're out. You're on it." And I said,
"I'm I'm on it like white on rice, Dad."
And then he backed off.
>> You should have told him, "We need you,
though. We need you to be a trip. We
need you to go undercover."
>> Yes. Just be totally silent.
>> Yeah. Listen, take notes. Tell me
everything. You are the lynch pin to
this operation.
>> Yeah. I went to see him at the hospital
that next weekend and I was with my mom
and my mom and dad, I say this all the
time, they were deeply in love with each
other like all my life. And so it was
time to leave. It was like, you know,
9:00 and visiting hours were over. So he
walked with us to the uh elevator and
then he tried to get into the elevator
and my mom said, "Honey, you can't go
home with us." and he got mad and he
says, "Stella, that girl at the hotel
told me I could go home anytime I
wanted."
And she said, "You're not in a hotel.
You're in a hospital."
He got out and he he looks at me and he
says he says, "Good night, buddy." And I
said, "Good night, Dad." And then he
looks at my mom and he says, I can't
even say it with a straight face. He
goes, "As for you, I'm done with you."
She cried all the way home. And I was
like, "Mom, he's not in his right mind.
He can't help it." But then he would
have a good day.
>> Yeah.
>> Then he would have two good days. And
then finally after a while, he snapped
out of it and he was his normal self
again. And then couldn't believe the
stuff that we were telling him he had
said. Couldn't believe it. I If I hadn't
been around people now who have
experienced that, I wouldn't believe it
either. But now having seen it,
>> what a how can you win a battle against
your own brain? Oh my god. I've got a
friend, a very dear friend whose dad
just passed away in his 90s and he had a
stroke and so his short-term memory was
just gone. Well, my buddy's brother died
in 1991. He was young. He was in his
20s. Died in 1991. And every single day
his dad would say, "Where's Billy? I
haven't seen Billy. Why hasn't he come
to visit me?" And every day they had to
say, "Billy died 35 years ago." And then
he would just burst into tears. So
finally they just said, "Billy, Billy
was just here two hours ago. You don't
remember?" Oh, okay. Okay. When's he
coming again? He's coming tomorrow.
Don't worry about it.
>> I think that's the move.
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah.
>> But getting back to Gust.
Gust was like one of the most one of the
manliest men. I'll tell you what, then
this is what a dear friend he was. I'll
tell you two more Gus things. what a
dear friend he was. I was going through
a divorce coming out of Athens and I was
just
just wrecked.
>> I've been through one myself. I know
what you're talking about.
>> It's bad. I've been through two. The
second one was worse.
>> Yeah.
>> But the first one I'm like, "My life is
over at 36." I couldn't believe it.
>> And he said to me,
>> "This is going to sound so crude, but
this is just the way this is just the
way Gus used to talk. He says, "Don't
worry about that. you're going to get
more [__] than you've ever had in your
entire life. You're going to have more
[__] than you're going to know what to
do with. I'm like, Gus, I feel old and
broken and and I'm 20 lbs overweight and
and he said, "My wife left me when I was
stationed in Athens."
He said, "I was 44 years old. Next thing
I know, I'm on top of a 20-year-old."
And I said, I said, "How the heck did
you do that?" like, you know, share,
right? So I can try to make a comeback.
>> And he says, he said, I said to her one
time, "Why are you with an old man like
me?" And she said, "Because guys my age
want to talk about their stereos and you
want to talk about how beautiful my tits
are."
>> I mean, that's not a bad sound.
>> I said, "Lesson learned, Gust. Thank
you.
Write that down in the notebook of
life." And then one time, this is my
last Gus story unless you have
questions. He he emailed me and he said,
"Listen, I'm going to be out of touch
for 10 days, so keep on keeping on. I'll
drop you a line when I'm back." I'm
like, "Okay." Figuring vacation, family,
something.
I'm going to meet with a particularly
sensitive source one day and I'm doing a
three-hour surveillance detection route
and I'm way down south of Athens and I
make this turn
and as I turn, I happen to turn and look
and there's Gus. He's standing on the
street corner
and I was like, "No, no, no. It's my
imagination." Because I've been thinking
about him, right? and I carry on with
the SDR.
And then he emails me like four or five
days later, hey, I'm back. So I said, I
go, Gus, by any chance 4 days ago, did I
see you standing in front of the the
steakhouse in Anoglya?
And he writes back, tell anybody and
I'll [__] kill you.
So afterwards when I got home from the
tour I was like way back what in the
world were you doing in Glyifada that
day? Why didn't you tell me you were in
Athens? We could have you know met up or
had dinner. And he says he loved the
huna the military dictatorship fascist
dictatorship that just terrorized Greece
for seven years, murdered thousands of
people. He was like this with those
guys. So he said um and and the
dictator, the head of the hunter was a
guy named uh Colonel Papadopoulos,
George Papadopoulos. And he said, "You
know, I'm I'm godfather to
Papadopoulos's son." I was like, "What?
It's like being godfather to Hitler's
son."
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
>> And not a good look.
>> No. And he says, "HE'S MY GODFATHER. I
take our religion seriously." I'm like,
"Okay, okay." He said, "Well, that's why
I didn't tell anybody." They wouldn't
understand. I go, "Gus, I love you."
What? I don't understand.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. He He made no excuses.
>> The old SDR.
>> Yeah.
>> My wife
um has no natural sense of direction.
>> Oh my gosh.
>> I we we share life 360,
>> right? I do too.
>> I will find her. We'll talk on the phone
and she train coaches at a jiu-jitsu
gym. Literally blown literally one block
away down the alley by the police
station. I know roughly how long it
takes to get from there to where we live
and we'll have 20 minute conversations
on the phone and I'll ask her where the
[__] are you and she's like oh I missed
the turn just and so I've taught her the
term SDR. I'm like are you on another
SDR? She goes yes I definitely am. I
actually think that if she was being
observed by an intelligence agency that
they would think she is actually got an
exceptional level of fieldcraft,
>> she just has no sense of direction
whatsoever. She would accidentally be
confused with somebody with a high level
of tradecraftraft.
>> I I
>> I'll find her miles on life. I'm like,
>> you're you're four miles from where we
live and the gym is three. She's like, I
just took a wrong turn. I'm just going
to see where this goes. What the
>> Oh my god. GPS.
>> They've invented and and they do great
work.
>> John, it's it's it's less than a dozen
turns to get to our house. I And now I
think it's fantastic because she at
first I'm like, "Oh, you're on an SDR."
She's like, "What does that mean?" I'm
like, "Well,
it's a, you know, surveillance detection
route, this, that, or the other." And
she's just like, "Yeah, that's what I'm
doing." So now she just goes with this.
She's like, "Oh, hey, I'm on a SDR. I'll
be home in a little bit."
When Gus was training me and we were
doing SDRs, you know, the final phase in
an SDR is called the provocative phase.
>> Yeah. Where you start making the
aggressive left and right.
>> Yeah. Just crazy. No. No. It's more
provocative than the aggressive.
>> You're talking like throwing a U-turn.
>> U-turns. Pull into somebody's driveway.
Go the wrong way down a oneway street.
That's to be just 1,000% sure that
you're clean. But usually,
you know, if you're clean before you get
to that final phase. And the final phase
can it could be two blocks. You know,
you don't have to drive the wrong way
down the oneway street for very long.
But um
uh
if you realize you're being followed,
you just abort the meeting. I I never
met anybody that ever had to go into a
provocative phase.
I don't know because it's so provocative
that the conclusion you could draw
attention to yourself.
>> Exactly. And the conclusion would be
like, "Oh, he's doing a an SDR. We got
to put a double team on him." I worked
with this woman in Bahrain. She was a
State Department officer. She was so
freaking arrogant.
>> She had no reason or right to be
arrogant. She was just arrogant.
She had come from Romania, had never
served in the Middle East before. I had
already been there a year when she
arrived. She replaced a friend of mine
who went on to be a young ambassador and
um
she came to the office one day and she
said, "Have you had surveillance here?"
And I said, "No, not a single time." She
said, "I had surveillance last night." I
said, "It's cuz you're the political
officer. They just assume that everybody
who's the political officer is a CIA
officer." And she wasn't. I said,
"What'd you do?" And she said,"I took
them on a high-speed chase from the top
of this island to the bottom." And I was
like, "Good for you." Which of course is
exactly the opposite of what you're
supposed to do. Just go about your
normal business. Maybe act normal
>> because then they're going to say, "Oh,
she's just acting normal. She's she went
to the grocery store and she went to the
dry cleaners and then she went home. She
must not be CIA." And then they move on
to the next guy. She was so provocative
that literally every meeting she went to
for the next two years she dragged
surveillance to and as a result she
pulled surveillance off of me. I never
had it. Never.
>> Yeah. I worry about an intelligence
agency seeing my wife's driving. They're
like she is definitely a sleeper cell.
She's constantly looking for It's like
no she's not.
John, did you ever think that your life
was going to look like what it does
right now?
>> Oh, no. No. I can tell you exactly what
I thought my life would look like. My
wife and I used to talk, my second wife
and I used to talk about it. She was a
senior CI officer as well. Um, I
believed very firmly that I would do my
my 25 years because I had 5 years
overseas. you can get 30 years pension
after 25
>> and then I would um retire on a Friday,
start up the following Monday with a
contractor, do another five years and
live happily ever after. You know, we
had a I I won a big award um at um after
the Abaza operation. Big award. And I
used it to buy a piece of land in the
Outer Banks of North Carolina. I bought
a third of an acre. Loved it. love. I I
still love it's so clean and pristine.
It's just wonderful there. So, it was 10
ft above sea level, four lots back from
the ocean. Perfect. And um I just
thought, well, I'll retire and we're
going to build our house there and, you
know, live happily ever after. And no
such thing happened. How is it even
possible for people who do or did what
you did for a living to have
relationships but be married to somebody
who also doesn't work in that agency?
>> Oh, it's it's not possible. I hate to
say it, but it's just not possible.
>> How would it be? I mean, because I'm
assuming there I mean, obviously, if you
both work there, I'm assuming things are
obviously still compartmentalized, but I
don't know how you would even bridge
that gap.
>> You can't.
>> You'd have to start off with a lie. I'm
assuming the initiation of the
relationship. Well, the only thing my
first wife knew was that I worked at the
CIA
>> and that she couldn't tell anybody that
I worked at the CIA. That was it.
>> I would come home, especially once I
went operational. I would come home and
she'd say, "How was your day?" I'd say,
"Great.
What'd you do?" Nothing.
Who'd you see? Nobody.
>> Yeah.
>> Like, okay. Yep. How's your day? Good.
And then the phone would ring at 11. I
had seven cell phones.
And I had a they they always give you a
bigger house than you need because you
need space to entertain and you need
space for privacy. So I one of the
little bedrooms I had as a den and I
kept the door locked and I had seven
cell phones.
>> Um all burners all registered to
fictitious names. And um 11:00 the phone
would ring and I would say you know
Lilac personal shopping. I didn't. that
was from the Sopranos, but you get the
idea.
>> And um the guy would say, you know,
whatever the code was, and I would
respond with my bonafites
>> and um like he would say, "Hey, Billy,
uh I just got back uh to town." And I
would say, "How was your vacation?" And
he would say, "You know, it rained the
whole time I was gone." That means meet
me at the hotel coffee shop in three
hours.
And we we had previously arranged we
found a I I was able to identify a
24-hour coffee shop. So I would leave at
11:00 and she'd be like, "What? Where
are you going? It's 11:00.
I have a meeting."
You know, just like in the Sopranos, I
got a meeting. I got to make my
collections. And so I would do a
three-hour SDR. I would do the meeting.
The meeting would last an hour or two
hours. And then I would do two hours
back to my house, which maybe gave me an
hour to sleep. And then I'd get up,
shave, shower, go back to the uh to the
office and and work my normal day and
just hope I didn't have to do the same
thing again that night.
But she was convinced I was cheating on
her.
>> Well, I mean, how could she not think
that? I mean, the Yeah. the unregularity
of the hours and all of those things.
>> My second wife though,
>> I'll give you an example. I I was uh it
was the day I I was leaving Pakistan.
>> I had been there 6 months. Abu Zaba was
behind us. I had complete and total
success in in Pakistan. And she and I
had been um uh arranging planning a
week-long vacation in uh Santa Fe, New
Mexico. Neither one of us had ever been
to Santa Fe.
Two hours before I left for the airport,
I get this cable and it says, "Don't
come home. Instead, go to this other
country because we want you to break
into a house and plant a bug." And I was
like, "Fuck."
So, I called her. It's like, "Then can I
go to Santa Fe?"
>> I know, right? I called her and I said,
"I am so sorry, but" And then she said,
"No, no, I saw the cable. go do your
breakin. We'll go to Santa Fe some other
time. So, she understood what the job
entailed and we two three months later
we went to Santa Fe and had a great
time.
>> But she understood.
>> I think that's the only way it could
work for people in your line of work.
>> Do you think it's possible for agencies
like the CIA to exist and not become
corrupted?
>> No, I don't. That's a great question and
it's an important question and the
reason why I don't think it's possible
is because we will never have
appropriate oversight.
Oversight just will never happen. There
was this like golden age. We like to
think this golden age of congressional
oversight from 1975
until about 1982 when Iran Contra
started.
um coming out of the Church Committee,
the Pike Committee, the creation of the
House and Senate intelligence
committees, real oversight with giants
sitting on them. Daniel Patrick Moahan,
Frank Church, Burch Bay, Barry
Goldwater, serious people, heavy weights
in 20th century American politics who
were serious about, you know, the the
constitutionally mandated oversight
authority of Congress. And then that
just kind of went away and now they're
just cheerleaders. I I got a call from a
senator a week ago
last Friday and he said, "Um, hey, would
you come up to my office? I there are a
couple of issues I want to talk to you
about. This has happened a few times in
the last 10 years." And I drop
everything and I anytime a senator calls
me, drop everything and just go straight
up to the to the hill.
and he pierced this notion that I had of
the golden age from 75 to 82. So I said,
"Senator, what can I do for you?" We had
chitchat and baseball and he's a
baseball fan, so am I. I said, "What can
I do for you?" And he said, "I need your
help. There are some documents that I
need from 1975
and I just can't get access to them." I
said, "You're you're a senator. You're a
committee chairman."
>> Yeah. You should be the one with the
keys to the drawer.
>> Yeah, just pick up the phone and tell
them bring bring the documents by noon.
Have them in my office. He said, I've
been trying that for the last 7 years
and they tell me to go fly a kite.
>> What was the topic he was looking for?
>> Well, that's what it was. He said,
there's a classified annex
to the 1975 report.
I said, there can't be. the whole point
of the 1975 report was that it was
unclassified
and released to the public. And he said,
"Right, that's what they want everybody
to believe." He said, "I found a
classified annex." He said, "They denied
for seven years that it existed and then
we found it in a storage area
in the basement of the Senate."
And I said, 'And you you can't just open
the box?' He said, 'N no, it's covered
with decades worth of dust and it's
sealed and they will not let me see it.
And I said, "Have you gone to
leadership?" And he said, "Yeah." And
leadership said, "I don't want to get
involved in a dispute between two
committee chairmen." I said, "This is
this is outrageous." And because they're
congressional documents classified by a
congressional committee, they're not
subject to the Freedom of Information
Act because in its infinite wisdom,
Congress exempts itself from all of the
laws that it passes.
>> Convenient.
>> Yeah. And so I said, uh, I said,
"Listen, just off the top of my head, I
think your only strategy here is to go
public. That's it. go public, scream it
from the rooftops, and say you're going
to raise hell on the floor of the Senate
every single day until they open that
box.
So, the way we left it was he was going
to think about it.
>> Yeah. Why would an agency allow a hard
copy like that to exist,
>> right? I mean, it's like, "Guys, here's
what we're going to do. We print out
everything,
put it in this box, nobody will ever
find it,
>> and just hope nobody ever finds it." No,
it's like, and again, I'm not trying to
give anybody's like policy approaches
here, but it's like, you know, there's
there's some truth to the, you know, the
only way you can keep a secret between
three people is if two of them are dead.
>> Exactly.
>> Why would you have a written hard copy
if like if somebody in charge somewhere
is like, "This has to be destroyed."
Well, then go [__] destroy it. Well,
you've heard the story about Dick Helms
and MK Ultra.
>> Yeah. So, Senator Church told him, "Do
not destroy the documents." and he went
back to headquarters from that meeting
and said, "Destroy all the documents."
He understood the assignment and and
they find him like $100 and everybody
was chipping in a buck, two bucks in the
hallway to pay the director's uh
congressional fine. But that's why we
only have 15% of the MK Ultra documents
because the agency destroyed everything.
>> Well, there's definitely nothing good in
that other 85%. No, for sure. You know,
the reason I asked you the question
about the agency corrupting itself is I
started looking at, you know, just
publicly disclosed like MI5, MI6.
>> Um, ju any intelligence agency
that, you know, we ask people and
countries ask people, your job is to
lie, cheat, steal, win at all costs. And
people get really, really, really good
at that. And over enough time,
>> it seems like, and the charter of the
CIA, to my understanding, is to be
externally focused. But even when I was
just looking at it this morning, MI5 and
MI6, you see the same similarities,
those incredible tools of what are
supposed to be external protection start
getting oriented inward. And once that
starts, how do you correct that?
>> Yeah. Right. It could take a generation
to correct that.
>> Is it even possible in a generation? Is
it is it
>> possible in our case organ or
organization gets so
>> corrupted and politicized
>> and it's like I I believe the CIA we
need an entity like that
>> but how do we fix the entity that we
have without burning it to the ground
and losing that capability.
>> I'm not sure it's possible.
>> Well, you would know more than I would.
I mean, I my access to information comes
from Google,
>> right? You know what what really wrecked
it for us was 9/11 and passage of the
Patriot Act. So, you know, right now,
great branding, by the way.
>> Seriously, right? People have no idea
the freedoms that they gave away. They
have no even after all these years, they
have no understanding.
>> FISA right now is currently being argued
about.
>> You took the word 702. You took the
words right out of my mouth. I I was
going to say section 702 is coming back
up for reconsideration yet again like it
does every two years. This is a section
that directly takes our constitutional
freedoms away for from us in the name of
national security. And Donald Trump ran
in 2016
u against section 702. Now 702 is what
Ed Snowden told us about for the first
time in the summer of 2013
>> they were using right Pegasus. Yeah.
>> So Michael Google this one. How many
illegal FBI queries have there been in
section 702? and the number is going to
be over 200,000. And that's the issue
that nobody wants to talk about.
>> I I want I want to show you a number too
that I've written about a couple of
times as soon as he finishes this one,
but it's along the same lines. And this
is why we're in such a a
>> hundreds of thousands of 78,000
misused queries
>> in two years.
>> Constitutional violation. Every single
one of those.
>> Every single time. Brennan Center for
Justice. If your audience doesn't know
the Brendan Center for Justice, you got
to go there. They're all geniuses. Um,
ju if you don't mind, Michael,
um,
how many FISA warrant applications have
been denied?
>> Oh, is this a literal and figurative
round number?
Check this out.
34,000
requests,
estimates ranging from 11 or 120
>> three 100s of 1%
have been denied. Ask Carter Page how
that worked out for him.
>> And here's what's crazy. I agree with
the argument that we need to keep track
of people who are maligned with the
morals and interests of this country.
>> But this is a bigger net than that. It
query system that Snowden was talking
about
>> between you and I. Well, you were from
the intelligence world. I wasn't. I was
from the lack of intelligence world
based off my high school GPA. But I am
sure even just in the social contacts
that I have, if you go six rings farther
than that, I am peripherilally
associated with the cell phone tree to
criminals of some kind. Um, and who
knows depending on how that goes and
what those people know.
>> Absolutely. And that's the issue that
people are losing in this is that this
net not only captures the person that
they may be targeting, but all the other
people that are upstream and downstream
of that thrown into a database that can
be queried unconstitutionally.
And the next thing you know, our
government is looking at your personal
information, which they shouldn't be
able to do. And then,
let's be real honest here, too. If they
worry about the legality of that,
they'll just go across the pond and ask
those people use the same tools.
>> And they do it every single word. Have
you ever heard of Muhammadu Ulahi?
>> I can't believe you would even ask me a
question like that because the answer is
obviously no.
>> Okay. Muhammadu Muhammadu is is
the Nelson Mandela of of our age. This
is a guy a movie was made of him an
A-list Hollywood movie called The
Moritanian.
>> Mhm.
>> So Muhammadu was a Moritanian citizen.
He was in medical school in Germany and
his cousin was getting married in
Moritania.
So Muhammadu had another cousin in
Lebanon who was a member of al-Qaeda.
And
the Moritania cousin called and said,
"Are you in touch with our Lebanon
cousin?" He said, "Rarely, once a year
maybe we talk." He said, "Can you call
him? I can't get in touch with him. Tell
him his dad had a stroke." His dad's in
in very poor health. Muhammad who calls
his cousin. Your dad had a stroke. Oh my
god. Thank you for telling me. Yeah, I'm
going to go to Moretania to go to the
other cousin's wedding. I'll check in on
your dad. That was it. That was the
conversation.
He goes to Moritania to go to the
wedding. The CIA says, "Hey, wait a
minute. There's this guy in Germany.
He's talking to al-Qaeda, Lebanon. He's
going to Moretania, which is full of
al-Qaeda. Oh my god, it's a giant
meeting of al-Qaeda.
No, it was a family wedding. So, we
asked the Mortanians, go to this event,
whatever this they're calling it a
wedding, probably a code name for
operational planning meeting.
>> It was a wedding. Go to the wedding and
grab this guy. So, they do they grab
him, they turn him over to the agency.
He spent 14 years at Guantanamo
undergoing merciless torture.
And after 14 years, the CIA said, "You
know what? This is probably the wrong
guy. We'll just let him go." Well, by
then, he's been identified as a
Guantanamo al-Qaeda terrorist. No
country would take him. The Moritanians
would kill him if we sent him back to
Moritania. So, he bounced around. He
went to Italy. He went to, I think,
Switzerland. Now, he uh lives in the
Netherlands.
He never finished medical school. He
couldn't. So now he teaches. He's
married to a Dutch woman. They have a
couple of kids. We've become good
friends. When he was released from
Guantanamo, he went on Twitter and I
tweeted at him. I had just gotten out of
prison. I tweeted at him and I said, "My
country will never apologize for what it
did to you, so I will." I said, 'I'm
ashamed at what the CIA did to you and
I'm sorry. And he DM'd me immediately
and we've been friends ever since. I
teach at a university in Spain, the
University of Salamanca, a course on the
history of terrorism. And every semester
he he does one of the lectures for me.
And his story has gotten out, thank God,
with the release of the movie The
Moritanian,
which you can see on a on a
transatlantic flight near you. you know,
it's it everybody's got it. Um,
his ability to forgive
is incredible to me. I've tried to
emulate that. I lay in bed at night
still, you know, fantasizing about the
executions of everybody who's wronged
me, but he Who doesn't?
>> I know, right?
>> And in some cases, they actually used to
share the bed. Anyway, that's a
different issue. I've had that
experience as well.
>> So, uh, how this guy has been able to
become the the man that he is. He's a
he's a he's a role model for all the
rest of us. But he's the first guy we
should talk to about section 702. Yeah.
>> And how it's abused
>> abused to target innocent people. Oh, I
remember the point I was going to make.
Donald Trump campaigned against the
reauthorization of section 702 and then
last week said that he talked to three
dozen generals and admirals and every
single one of them said we have to have
702 to keep America safe. So I support
the reauthorization of section 702.
Okay, that's exactly the opposite of
what you ran on.
>> And how 702 keeps us safe when we have
other electronic means to keep us just
as safe without spying on American
citizens unconstitutionally.
Nobody's ever explained why why do we
need 702? You know, when when Ed Snowden
went public, the whole goal was
to have 702 repealed, to have the
Patriot Act repealed eventually, but but
to start with 702. And every two years
when it comes up for a vote, a couple
more people will go over to the no side,
but not in any numbers to actually mean
something.
>> Yeah. Then if you look at it, you if you
read four paragraphs down in the
articles, it says, well, even if they
say no, it the system's already set up
so it can continue for another month.
>> Yeah.
>> Which
So again, how do how does the cart or
the horse
>> go back in the barn?
>> Yeah. I honest to God, you know, when
we've got when we've got the likes of
Lindsey Graham and Mark Warner and and
and this is not a partisan issue. Both
parties are equally um complicit in
stripping us of our civil rights and
civil liberties.
>> Yeah.
>> When you've got these guys who are, as I
said a few minutes ago, just
cheerleaders for the intelligence
community, there there is no going back.
I mean, does that essentially mean then
that the intelligence community is
becoming the power broker in this
country, not the elected officials?
>> I think so. I I really believe it. You
know, on the on the Republican side, Ran
Paul is really good. Not perfect, but
he's good.
>> On the Democratic side, Ron Weiden is
good. Also, not perfect, but good. But
you can't win these things with two
senators.
>> Yeah.
>> You can't. You need 51
>> and then the house is a lost cause.
>> Yeah. I mean, so how do we how do we
maintain our capability but put it into
a system where we actually have
oversight?
>> Mhm.
>> Or is that even possible now? And if
it's not possible, what does that mean
for our country and the future of where
we're headed? Tom Drake, the NSA
whistleblower, will tell you that the
systems already exist to spy on our
enemies, protect Americans, and preserve
civil liberties all at the same time.
They existed. And then on the morning of
911,
um, Mike Hayden, who at the time was the
head of NSA, became the head of the CIA,
said that NSA had been waiting for a
9/11 so that they could implement the
bigger uh, program and grab everybody's
electronics. Not only is it illegal for
NSA to intercept the communications of
American citizens or US persons, which
is anybody in the country legally on a
green card. It is a part of NSA's
founding charter
forbidding them from intercepting the
communications of Americans or US
persons. And they just say, "Tough 9/11,
national security.
What are you going to do? You got to
start from scratch.
>> How do we do that?
>> Yeah.
>> When we I mean, I'm at the place now
where, don't get me wrong, I'm not a
geopolitical expert or an expert of our
political system.
>> I don't think it's correctable from the
top down anymore. I think it's only I
think it's only can be from a bottom
>> from the bottom up.
>> But but that's generational.
>> It's generational. And you're talking
about people on moss
>> going into the streets and we're not
there. This is not going to the streets
had a different I call it the passive
aggressive uh revolution.
>> You're not you're not talking about
summer of 68, you know,
millions of people marching in the
streets, people getting shot at
universities.
>> I hope not because people aren't ready
for that. The people who are calling for
civil war, I always try to just tell
them, please be careful what you wish
for.
>> Mhm.
>> Because if you think
>> it could get way worse than what we're
seeing. Well, if you think the answer is
banging it out with your neighbor
because they have a different political
sign in their front yard in your
culde-sac,
>> right?
>> You are not ready for what this actually
looks like.
>> The passive aggressive revolution, which
this wouldn't work either, is
>> we all stop paying taxes.
>> Ah,
>> here's the problem, though. Most
people's taxes are paid through their
employer. So, we'd have to get the
employers on board.
>> That's true.
>> That I like that idea.
>> How does all this stuff function? Money.
Mhm.
>> I mean, at the end of the day, and this
this is an interesting one. I know you
uh have talked openly about your
thoughts about Epstein.
>> I look at it from like an AAMS razor
approach. I mean, could he have been a
triple agent?
>> Sure,
>> maybe. I think the guy just helped any
intelligence agency that wanted with the
ability to move money.
>> That's kind of the way things are
looking now with the release of the
second tranch of documents.
>> Well, here's the thing. I don't know
anything, but you know what I I don't
really know anything about the world
that you operate in, but it's a very
uniquely US viewpoint. The agency is we
are you guys are the the shining star of
freedom. You are part of our umbrella.
Well, to the rest of the world, I'm
pretty sure they look at you guys like
an illegal organization full of
gangsters.
>> And I've never been on an intelligence
operation with you guys, but I feel like
when the if you're at a dinner and the
bill comes in, you don't put down the
CIA credit card or write a check that
says Central Intelligence Agency. So the
whole mechanism and ability for you to
be able to do your job is through money.
>> Yeah.
>> So you need to be able to launder and
move money.
>> Epstein was a really shitty trader.
>> Yeah.
>> But if you're not worried about an ROI,
>> who gives a [__]
>> You can do anything you want.
>> You just pass the money through. Was he
into some really horrendous stuff?
>> Yeah. Do I think that the government
knew that? Yeah. Did they turn a blind
eye? Would they be willing to turn a
blind eye? 100%.
I think he was a useful idiot
>> that helped any intelligence agency fund
their operations wherever that he
wanted.
>> I think that's good analysis.
It it checks all the boxes and would
explain a lot. It would explain why he
was volunteering to the CIA and the FBI,
to MI5 and MI6, to the Germans, to the
Russians, to the Israelis. It would
explain those relationships. And then
with the the Rothschilds.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, I mean, this is a guy who
never went to college. He was a
>> I mean, I can't judge that too deeply,
John.
>> No, but but how do you end up with the
widest townhouse in Manhattan? Uh, and
and a multi-billion dollar portfolio
when you were a 7th grade substitute
math teacher
>> because you're willing to do anything
for money and people know that.
>> Yes. And
I wish I wish that I could say
that the government,
whatever people would define that as
deeply cares about their citizens. And
to a degree, I think they do. But if you
think for a second that they won't allow
people to get victimized to achieve the
end state that they want, you're living
in a fantasy world.
>> I think you're right.
>> And then I think he becomes interesting
too, right? He gets to this level of
affluence and wealth. Yeah, that'd be an
interesting guy to, you know, like, oh,
that's interesting. you're friends with
this person in a digital age. It's like
>> I I don't know how any of this works,
but I'm like,
>> uh, Rogan's a good friend of mine.
>> And I worry about him because he sits
down and he talks with a lot of people.
I'm like, listen man, I know you well
enough that like you're a UFC
commentating like standup comedian,
probably not going to be a good asset.
But if there's a way to bug your phone
and then anybody who comes in proximity
to you, their stuff gets attached to it
as well, that's very valuable. Yeah,
that would be my concern for him.
>> You're exactly right. So Epstein, not to
try to attach Joe to Epstein at all,
departing here, he fits into that
category of well, you're around rich
people, and in my experience, there's a
level of wealth where people start
getting a little bit weird. Not all of
them, but if you can have everything and
anything,
>> it starts to fray at the edges a little
bit.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And you know, that's great leverage. Let
let me ask you, and I know you don't
have any inside information, but this is
something that has perplexed me from the
start of this whole case. What do you
make of Les Wexner?
I mean, could it be could this have been
romantic at its core?
>> I think anything like that is possible.
Um,
why would Lex Less Wexner Yeah. have
showered Jeffrey Epstein with so much
money over such a long period of time.
What made Epstein of all people stand
out to him? This is the richest man in
the state of Ohio.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. He's a billionaire and he earned
every dollar of it himself.
>> Yeah.
>> So, of everybody else in America, why
does he pick Epstein?
>> Maybe he knew what Epstein was really up
to and he supported it.
I mean, maybe Epstein was just a like,
"Hey, man, just so you know, I actually
really suck at trading, but you and I
are going to change the world." I've got
a really dear friend who was a deputy
attorney general. um a he's my friend
and my attorney and he maintains that
that
at at an individual level. The only real
way, if you're not a government or
connected to a government, the only real
way to launder large amounts of money in
this digital age that we're in are
through high-end real estate, luxury um
uh watches and jewelry, fine art, and
raceh horses. Those are the only the
only ways in which cash largescale cash
transactions can be affected.
And that's always stuck with me since he
said that.
>> Yeah. I mean, you the high-end art world
is an interesting one. You could travel
the world with something worth 50
million.
>> Who pays for it? How, where it goes?
>> Who knows? It's anonymous half the time.
>> The money stuff gets is fascinating to
me. And again, I don't have I don't I
didn't come from that world, but at the
end of the day, I'm like, what makes all
this tick? It's the money.
>> Yeah.
>> Like, if you really want to shut down
the CIA,
>> like, Elliot, just by the way, you guys
have no money. What are you going to do?
Oh, I you've you've heard me say you've
heard me say that in the days after
9/11, I went up to Kofheer Black, who is
the head of the counterterrorism center,
and I said, Kofheer, I have a I have an
idea for an operation I want to run by
you. And he put up his hands and he
said, "Whatever it is, just do it. I
have so much money, I can't possibly
spend it all." And we wonder why, okay,
>> these agencies can't pass an audit.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Yeah. And the and the CIA is essentially
a cash business. Everything's in cash.
>> Yeah.
>> You're just an honor to sign the
receipt.
>> Again, it it has to be.
>> It's a uniquely US optic to think that
you're out there with the stars and
stripes on your shield. Everybody else
is trying to kill you guys. You're a
criminal everywhere else. Of course,
you're paying in cash.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I don't think they would take a
company check. Even though Harrison Ford
did buy a helicopter.
>> Yeah, he did. With a check, but he had
his business card with
>> He did. Do you take a company? The
demand was like, yes. I mean, it's that
that one's probably not going to bounce
for sure, but you're going to have some
questions from your boss.
>> Yeah. Indeed.
>> I don't know what to do because at this
point, there's no way you're shutting
off the money to any of these
organizations.
>> Not a chance.
>> Not a chance. And institutionally 9/11
happened like, you know, last week.
>> Yeah.
>> It's not 25 years ago. It just happened.
And so, nobody's given up any authority.
Nobody's given up any budgets. Nothing's
going to change. Where does that leave
us
>> if we can't change it and we can't even
hit the pause button
>> and our government continues to grow
>> and our deficit continues to grow even
though again that was kind of the
opposite of the platform that was run
upon but here we are again and we can't
account for where the money went
>> to even include inside of the DoD
>> right
>> the Marines are good they they have
actually been like hey this is the money
you gave us
>> this is what we have every other branch
they're like we don't really No, no. I
mean, Jay Edgar Hoover famously went 48
consecutive years with a budget
increase. All he had to do is go in
front of Congress, which he did every
year, and he would say communism. And
they're like, "Oh my god, here's more
money." That even came up with Gustin
and Charlie Wilson's war, how they would
go in the appropriations, communism.
Well, he explained it. I don't have to
tell them what it's for. I just have to
tell them the number. And what did they
start with? 10 million. and they ended
up at over a billion obviously over a
course of a period of time.
>> He said he was very clear. We we talked
about when they first when the book was
first optioned
>> and the writers the writers were coming
to Virginia to to have dinner with Gust
and just get some ideas for how they
wanted to adapt the script or adapt the
book into a script. And he would tell
them these stories. He he was very
clear. He said he never had a mind for
budgets. All he ever wanted to do was
kill Russians. And so when he went to
the the director or the deputy director,
they said, "Well, what's your idea for
the operation? My idea for the operation
is we kill as many people as we possibly
can kill." And they said, "Okay, what do
you need for that?" And he said,
"Stinger missiles." And then years and
years later, I'm in Pakistan and I get a
call from the front gate, from the
Girkas or whoever we had at the front
gate. They're like, "John, there's a guy
here in a pickup truck and he's got a
missile in the back." I said, 'Is it a
stinger? They said, "Looks like a
stinger." "Okay, I'll be right down."
So, I go down with a camera. In the days
before, phones had cameras. And I say hi
to the guy. He's just some, you know,
Afghan refugee. He's got a missile in
the back of the in the bed of the pickup
truck
>> as they do.
>> Yep. And I I roll the missile over and
it's got the little tag on it. And I
take a picture of the tag and I said,
"Let me take the missile. We're going to
put it in this in this little building
over here. Come back in 24 hours. If
this is one of ours, I'll give you your
money. So, I uh I send the picture to
headquarters. I said, "This guy drove up
today. He had a missile. I have the
missile in the walk-in room, and here's
the information that's on the little
tag." They write back, they say, "Yep,
it's one of ours." So, I go to the cash
room. I pull a h 100red,000 out in cash.
The guy comes back the next day. I make
him sign a receipt. He writes, you know,
Muhammad, I give him his 100,000 and
there's one fewer stinger missile that's
out there to be used against us.
>> You're making a difference, John.
>> That was Gust. It's like Gus, you had to
give them like all the Stinger missiles,
dude. I mean, look at our exit from
Afghanistan.
>> Oh, what a [__] show.
>> What was it the day later? They had a
dude hung around the neck underneath a
Blackhawk flying. I mean, if you don't
think that all of our nearpeer
adversaries were surging into that,
looking at the equipment we left behind,
all of those things, like you're living
in a fantasy.
>> What were you doing for the last 20
years?
>> We're good at breaking things and entry.
We suck at exit. And that's what scares
me about Iran as well.
>> Oh my god. Yes, Andy. When I was I was
the senior investigator on the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee from '09 to
the end of 11. And um I went to
Afghanistan with John Kerry early. I
think it was in '09. He had just become
the chairman. And we go into this
briefing and I'm sure you've sat through
a thousand of these. So it's like 10
generals from don't go into rooms with
10 generals. I was like enlisted or very
junior officer. I would like if the door
open and there's that many call. I'm
like I have a dental appointment. No. So
they're between like one and four stars.
They're all sitting around the the room
and um and Carrie and and uh another
colleague of mine and I go in and we sit
there and they have this this slideshow
ready for them and they're like, you
know, elements of this the second
mountain division are moving here and
the armored cores. And
>> we come out of it and Carrie, who should
know better? He says to me, we may
actually win this thing.
>> Oh god. And I go, "We're not going to
win this thing. They've been given the
same briefing since 2001."
>> Yeah.
>> I said, "Seriously, Senator," I said,
"Hamid Carzi is the mayor of Kabell.
That's it. Why do you think we have to
do these corkcrew takeoffs and
landings?" "Because these guys still
have Stinger missiles and they're going
to use them against us. We're not going
to win this thing."
It's like, my god. Like, does nobody
think these things through? I I don't
know the answer to that. I mean, we
strategically achieved our objectives in
Afghanistan in about 90 days.
>> I I say the same thing all the time. By
the end of 2001 for about 20 years.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> That's what that's where it all falls
apart.
>> The mission was to defeat al-Qaeda and
we destroyed them by the end of 2001.
>> We were actually too good at it cuz if
you look at it, I mean the last uh not
intel but articles I've read on it now
al-Qaeda or ISIS which you know call
them branches of the same tree. I mean,
if you would get two or three of those
people together, oh, you're going to
have a bad day because we were going to
come knock. Well, we weren't going to
knock on your door. That wouldn't be
true. We might take the door off the
hinges and a man may not appreciate, but
they learn real quick like we have to be
disagregate. So, we actually were so
effective that we pushed that at least
from a senior leadership level that
ideology into 60 plus different
countries.
>> Look at this hell right now. It's it's a
hellscape.
>> Yeah. And what does it even mean to win
in Afghanistan? And this is one of the
things that I worry about with Iran.
What are our what are the measurable
strategic objectives that we are trying
to achieve?
>> Yeah.
>> How are we going to measure them?
>> Vocaliz.
>> You'll hear other people vocalizing what
they believe the beliefs to be, but I'm
yet to hear it from the administration.
And I don't feel like these are heavy
lifts or high asks for the
administration. There's there's a reason
why people don't have an appetite for
this. we're gonna do some stuff and
we'll leave when we're ready. Like we
tried that. We had 20 years of GWAT in
both Iraq and Afghanistan where that
didn't work well. And
so other people have verbalized, you
know, their thoughts on it. But no, the
administration hasn't like what are the
metrics. I mean even it like reduce
military capability by 80%. Like I'll
accept that. That's fine. And what are
our criteria for exiting? Because that
>> that's the question.
>> And that didn't exist in Afghanistan.
You're right. I mean my first deployment
to Afghanistan was in 2002 was shortly
after uh Hamakarza had the assassination
attempt on him. We augmented their
security detail before they turned it
over to a civilian contractor. And then
my last one was there in 2010 and the
war looked very different. But even then
I mean it was just we could have a
tactical influence in the the locations
we could physically go and touch. But we
also, one of the first operations we did
was into a province where US forces
hadn't been in 10 years.
>> And we almost got our [__] pushed in.
>> I bet you. I mean, they like, well,
thank you that we have overhead assets.
You know, my rifle can shoot a little
bit more accurately at a farther
distance than yours.
>> But to think that we were going to win
in Afghanistan, what does that mean? And
still democracy, that didn't work. It
didn't work in Iraq. They didn't want
that in the first place. It's never
happened there.
>> No, they had no history. But how do we
>> learn our from our mistakes?
>> Yeah.
>> And I I don't understand.
>> Well, you know, look at our look at our
political leaders. Our political
leaders, again, this is not a partisan
issue. Pick either one of the two major
parties. They think they're the smartest
guys in the room.
>> That's always the most dangerous person.
>> It is dangerous. That's right.
>> They have no demonstrable proof that
that's true either.
>> No. No.
You know, I I mentioned before we
started um filming that I did a series
of speaking engagements around the UK a
year ago. Well, I had a um a conversant.
So, it's like an evening with John
Keryaku sitting on a stage with a
conversant. And the first five it was
like an English lit professor. The
second was an actor. At the end, it was
a retired member of MI6.
And he said something to me one night
that
it kind of hurt my feelings a little bit
as an American former intelligence
officer, but he said, "You know, we've
always loved you guys. In fact, we
created the CIA." I said, "Oh, I know.
I've written about it. It it was you
guys, you know, your station in New York
um helped us create the OSS." And then
President Truman specifically asked MI6,
"Can you set something up that would be
a central intelligence agency?"
So he said, "We always saw you as our
little brother and then um after the
empire fell apart, you became our big
brother and then after 9/11, you became
strangers because your policy was just
simply to kill everybody and that can't
be a policy."
>> Well, it can be a policy, but where does
it lead you?
>> Where does it lead you? Yeah. I mean,
look at Iran right now. You you brought
up Iran a moment ago.
I see Iran in the same basket as Gaza
and Lebanon.
I understand your need for security
truly, but your policy can't be just to
kill everybody. That's not a viable
policy. And it's going to turn
generations of people against you,
>> which we have seen,
>> which we're already seeing.
>> Yeah. You know, how many times are we
going to see these lists of the 10 worst
anti-semites in in America and seven of
them you're like, they're not they're
not anti-semites. I know these people. I
know that they're not anti-semites.
It the it ends up not having an impact
anymore, not having an effect. It's a
sticky political tool and people won't
read past the headline. Unfortunately, I
it's exhausting to listen to people who
think that they're well informed, but
they get all of their information from
the same
>> Oh, man.
>> sources and all they really are is in an
echo chamber.
>> You're 100% right.
>> Yeah. It's People ask me a lot, and I'm
sure they ask you, where do you get your
news?
>> And the answer has to be from
everywhere.
>> Yeah.
>> Everywhere. And then you have to decide
what's true and what's not true.
>> Yeah. the heavy dose of skepticism
>> and a and a a constant reminder to
myself, do not rush into an emotional
reaction to this and don't leap to a
conclusion.
>> Yep.
>> And you have to rely on your own
analysis. Like for example, this uh
shooter at the White House
correspondents dinner the other day.
Immediately a buddy of mine sends sends
me a picture of the shooter from his
whatever Instagram page. He's wearing an
IDF sweatshirt and I was like, that
doesn't make any sense at all. I get
that it fits your ideology.
>> Yeah.
>> But not you, but him.
>> Um, but that doesn't make any sense at
all. If he's supposed to be this lefty,
you know, Trump-hating, why would he be
wearing an IDF sweatshirt? And then, of
course, two hours later, somebody comes
out and says, "There's this image going
around. He's in an IDF sweatshirt. It's
AI. It's disinformation." Of course it
is. But how many people didn't realize
it was disinformation? How many people
saw it?
>> How many?
>> That's even worse.
>> Because it was what they wanted to hear.
That's the world that we're in.
>> It's not a search for truth. It's a
search for what helps me believe deeper
than what I already believe.
>> People seek out echo chambers.
>> I think we need to test that guy
>> for metahuman abilities. Have you seen
the security footage?
>> Yes. I've never seen a person run so
fast.
>> Now, for clarity, I'm not sure the frame
rate the camera was shooting at.
Michael, have you seen this?
>> No. He could be the first metahuman.
>> It was the first thing my son said to me
is, "Can you have you seen how fast this
guy runs?"
>> Yeah. And I'm not trying to make light
of this at all, but I think this might
be like Flash Jr. with the shotgun. And
since everybody's okay, and I know a lot
of people were
>> I like Flash.
>> God, the Secret Service is getting just
[__] on right now. And the reality is
this.
>> No, they they did what their job was.
>> They did their supposed to. And that
like first off, stop going to that
hotel. Okay. Really shot. That's what
I'm saying. 50 ft away.
>> Yeah. I was like, listen, this one is on
the no-fly list now, okay?
>> Yeah.
>> And as much as people hate to say to say
it or agree with it, cuz this goes
directly into political teams. What
happened there is the best argument for
an actual ballroom at the White House.
>> You know, I have to say, as soon as
Trump said it, I was like, you know
what? He's he's right.
>> Well, we live in a free society and
freedom comes with risk. That hotel,
they can only lock down a certain area.
I mean, I sure, I guess they could take
over the whole thing. Yeah.
>> Uh, yeah, but it's before that.
>> It's before this.
>> You might not even see it, Michael. Look
at this guy. He's the Flash.
>> That's slowed down a little bit.
>> It is.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Have you ever seen
>> That's pretty quick.
>> It It's amazing when it's in real.
>> Quicker than you, Michael. Ridiculous.
>> Obviously.
>> Yeah. Thankfully, it appears that the
agent was bladed a little bit. I guess
the guy was shooting a slug. It went off
his vest, but he's okay.
>> Yeah. Thank goodness.
>> People think and looking at this,
they're like, "The Secret Service sucks
at their job." I'm like, "No, this was
an This is where they were used to doing
the magnetometers. They were breaking it
down. He would have had to make it down
a set of stairs through a set of double
doors.
>> The ballroom had 2600 people in it. The
president was on the far end of it.
>> Oh, yeah. He couldn't have gotten to
them.
>> Oh, not possible.
>> And I think he had
>> seven slugs.
>> Mhm.
>> The knife choice is a little bit more
interesting. That was weird.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, normal people don't do this. So, a
lot of the weird things I'm like, okay,
we'll put that in the weird bucket. But
>> freedom, the freedoms that we have come
with
>> with a risk involved. We can't. I guess
we could you could tell the Hilton
>> I guess you could write him a check like
you're shutting down for the entire
week, but that's not the world that we
live in. No.
>> So, there was a there was a distinct
security bubble and then people living
their civilian lives. And if that's how
we're going to do this, then this is
possible. You know, a friend of mine,
God bless her, she doesn't know anything
about intelligence or law enforcement or
anything. She's like, I think the Hilton
was in on it. I said, why? Why would
What could possibly lead you to conclude
that? and she said, "Jesus, how how was
he able to get in?" I said, "He went on
orbits or hotels.com,
made a reservation, and checked in a
couple of days early." It was literally
as easy as that.
>> And again, what is more dangerous
>> than putting on a calendar probably a
year out,
>> exactly.
>> This is what we're going to be doing and
this is where we're going to be.
>> You're exactly right.
>> The Hilton I saw a YouTube video of
this. I didn't believe it. I went to the
Hilton website. They probably have
changed it even though this should be on
the no-go list. Anybody out at the
Secret Service, don't go back to that
Hilton. There was a 360 virtual tour.
You could click your
>> Are you kidding me?
>> No. Every
>> I bet it never occurred to anybody.
>> Every square inch of the public areas.
Obviously, it's not going to go into the
individual hotel room.
>> This guy was breaking down the exact
place where he accessed the gap, the
bubble between
>> security and uh the civilian portion of
it and could walk the entire steps. He
was panning, showing the doors that was
in the security footage and then walked
the whole way. This is the He would have
had to go. There's a glass barrier that
thankfully absorbed the rounds that the
agent shot at him. Everybody's like
talking, you know, how could that agent
miss? I'm like, how you've never tried
to shoot at somebody after you've just
been shot with a pistol and they're
running
>> and he's running at double human speed
>> cuz he's a metahuman allegedly
have to get around to go down the stairs
and then he on the 3D tour goes down the
stairs into the doors and it opens into
the ballroom and you can see on the far
end where the president was and he
starts, you know, click click click
click like hundreds of clicks to cover
the distance and showed. Yeah. Although
the news is like the Secret Service
sucks and we need to redo this. No, no,
listen. I I love criticizing everybody,
right? I I do. It's I make a living
criticizing people, and I can tell you
about that in a minute. Uh but uh but
they they did exactly as they were
supposed to have done. They did exactly
what they're being paid to do. They
protected him. The guy the the guy
wasn't there apparently allegedly just
to kill Trump. He wanted to kill every
administration official he could get
into proximity to and uh and he didn't
get anybody. Y
>> So they they did a good job.
>> Yep. And then he got all his clothes cut
off him. So, you're you're welcome.
>> I saw that. It's like that's kind of
odd, but what do I know? I'm not a law
enforcement guy.
>> Well, we they needed to see if he had a
flash suit on underneath his clothing.
>> At first, I mean, obviously, I'm an
[__] in many ways, but the I saw that
footage. I was like, hit play on that
again.
>> Yeah, seriously. I did exactly the same.
>> I'm like, nobody runs at that speed. And
I'm like, okay, hold on. You know about
cameras a little bit. I'm like, okay,
it's probably a frame rate issue, but
there's a chance. It's the first meta
human ever.
>> He's Superman. I would worry about him
having that ability and not the
cognitive horsepower to go with it, but
that's a different issue.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
>> Very impressive.
>> I don't think we're done with stuff like
that. It's a long two and a half years
left.
>> Oh, I agree. I agree.
>> Two and a half years is a lifetime.
>> I don't know what it's going to look
like. Um I'm thankful that the people
who have seemed to take action like this
so far have been very disorganized and
unprepared. Mhm. I have a I had a
friend, he since passed away. He um he
was a 25- year secret service veteran.
Mike Master Veto. Mike was an awesome
human being. He um he retired while he
was told you need to retire like this
afternoon.
>> Yeah.
>> And so he came over to the agency as a
contractor and became a specialist in
Greek terrorism. So we worked very
closely together in Athens. And um Mike
told me that he started at the very end
of the Eisenhower administration. He was
in Dallas with Kennedy, had an
incredible scrapbook of all the stuff
that he done over the years. But he was
finally able to convince the Secret
Service leadership to create an
intelligence division. And he became the
very first director of the Secret
Service intelligence division. And for a
while it was just him. He was the
intelligence division. So anytime
somebody would write a threatening
letter and send it to the White House,
it would be routed to him. And he said
that what ended his career was uh
he went to uh San Francisco with a
letter from Sarah Jane Moore and the
letter said things like, you know, ask
not for whom the bell tolls it tolls for
thee. You know, she was writing to
President Ford. M.
>> So he knocks on her apartment door and
he said, "Sarah Jane, I'm Mike
Mastervito from the Secret Service. I
got this letter that you wrote to the
president. What's going on here?"
>> Got a few questions.
>> Yeah. And she's like, "Oh, my social
security check was late and I was really
mad." So I I wrote the president a
letter and he's like, "Well, you
threatened to kill the president." In
the letter. No, I'm not going to kill
the president. He said, "Okay, you're
promising me now." He says, "You're not
going to kill the president." "No, I was
just angry. It was a bad day."
Ford goes to San Francisco 2 weeks
later. She's standing on the side of the
street. Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang,
bang, with a whatever it was, a 44. And
then she ended up spending almost the
rest of her life in prison. They finally
released her when Ford died.
And then Mike was said, "It's time for
you to go." M
>> but uh you know we have to remind
ourselves that
the Secret Service is not always good.
Reagan got shot. Ford was subject to two
assassination attempts in three weeks.
>> Yeah.
>> Kennedy was killed.
>> Bless you.
>> Excuse me. Thank you. So, you know,
sometimes we get lucky.
>> It's just people doing the best.
>> Just people. That's it. You know, on
that note, how does somebody
>> It's so easy to judge entire communities
by the actions of individuals. And
>> isn't that the truth?
>> Yeah. And I know we're talking a lot
about where the agency is now or even
just intelligence apparatus.
I have to believe that there are still
people working for that agency who are
there for what I would consider to be
all the right reasons.
>> But how do you operate inside of a
system that has oriented yourself in a
different direction? So like how we'll
call it a true believer, somebody who
truly believes in what
>> the cause, the mission and they want to
have a positive impact and they get put
into this system.
>> How do they operate inside of that
system when it's they are noticing that
it's now moving in a different
direction? That's a great question, man.
Um,
there are a lot of people I I would you
know what? I'm going to go out on a limb
and I'm going to say most of the people
who work at the CIA, just like the ones
that work at the FBI or NSA or DoD or
Secret Service or whomever are there for
altruistic reasons. They want nothing
more than to serve the American people.
Certainly, that's why I was there. And I
met very very few people in my time at
the agency who were there for any other
reasons to enrich themselves or access
to power. I mean there are a couple of
sociopaths who are going to rise to the
top and Oh, I've heard you talk about
how they select for sociopathic
tendencies.
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> That's why I could never work there.
It's because I have none.
Uh, special operations might be.
>> Well, that that that house that I needed
to to break into and plant a bug. Yeah.
>> Secretly, I was like, "Woohoo!"
>> Yep. Now's my time.
>> I'll tell you a funny story about that.
We get to the house and there's like a
$20,000 German security door on it and
the locks and pics guy says, "It's going
to take me two weeks to break into
this." He goes, "We can't break into
this." I was like, "I flew all the way
out here for nothing." and they're
they're looking at the doors like,
"Yeah, this is a this is an, you know,
AL512.
This is like state-of-the-art." So,
while they're talking about how this is
a state-of-the-art security door, I walk
around to the back of the house. There's
a $5 Yale lock on the back door.
>> That's what I'm talking about.
>> And I was like, "Guys, guys, we're going
in the back." It's like being uh I was a
breacher for a little bit. And, you
know, guys would call for the breacher.
And one of my favorite things to do
would be to come to a door just to check
to see if it was locked.
>> Oh god. Yeah.
>> Oftentimes
>> filing cabinets are the same way.
>> Oftentimes it wasn't. And you know it's
you just take your hand and and these
are on US doors where we were training,
but even in training runs you could tell
that it would move and you're just like,
"Hey, just make nice eye contact with
him, turn the lock, open the door, like
there you go, buddy." Just to twist the
knife a little bit.
>> In training,
>> you got to look around. Yeah. We we we
did extensive training in crashing
through roadblocks and getting away from
shooters on the side of the road and
stuff like that. And what they what they
started with was you're in the car, a
quarter of a mile up is the roadblock.
The instructor's in the passenger seat
with you and he's like, "Okay, you ready
to go? You ready to go? We're going to
do this, right?" "Yeah, we're going to
do this. We're going to do this." And
then very quietly, there's a shooter
right there outside your door. you're so
laser focused on what's ahead and he
opens the door because you forgot to
lock it and then shoots you with a
paintball and he's like, "Well, you
flunk. We're going to try it again
tomorrow."
>> Yeah. You have to have those experiences
though.
>> You have to.
>> It reorients your optic on the reality.
>> Oh my god. Does it? We We did this one
exercise one time. Oh, I'll never forget
it.
>> It was at the It It was at It was at a
training facility uh here in the United
States. And so you have to go into this
house. No, it wasn't a house. It was
supposed to be a a hotel, a cheap flea
bag hotel in Central America. Okay. And
you're sitting at a table with a chair
and you've got your gun. And then they
say, "Okay, let's begin." So there's a
knock on the door. I I volunteered to go
first just cuz I wanted to get it over
with. Right. So everybody else, they're
like seven of us, eight of us all
together. The other seven are in the van
waiting outside with music blasting so
they can't hear like gunshots and stuff.
So I'm sitting at the table. My gun is
on the table. There's a knock on the
door and I said, "Who is it?" I didn't
say come in. I said, "Who is it?" And
the door opens and it's these two guys
dressed as uh uh maintenance and one of
them's holding a vacuum cleaner and
they're speaking really quickly in
Spanish. I don't speak Spanish. And so I
was like, "Wait a minute. Wait a minute.
I'm such an idiot. So I was like, I
didn't ask for maintenance.
And so I I got to stand up and one of
them drops the vacuum cleaner and he's
got a gun and he's like bang bang bang.
And I go, "Paint, paint, paint." I'm
like, "Fuck."
And he goes, "You flunk. Next. And don't
tell anybody in the van what happened."
So, I go to the van and they look at me
and they were like, "What happened in
there? What what's what are they doing?
What's the exercise?" And I just I go
like this and every single person came
back with three paintball
>> Yeah.
>> uh hits. Every single one of us. But
I'll tell you what, um, I learned a very
valuable lesson that night that if
you're in some [__] hole and you think
that maybe possibly there could maybe be
a threat to your security,
>> you go guns blazing and work out the
paperwork later.
>> That is an important mindset to have,
but I think that mindset also is what
led the agency to torture people. I
think you're exactly right. You there's
a parallel there.
>> When did the agency shift in your mind
from not or maybe they were always
willing to do that? And for clarity,
there's the agency being directly
involved in torture and then there's a
rendition program that will just take
you to I don't know, Jordan as a random
pl allegedly place on the map where they
might hook your testicles up to a car
battery or strip a mattress of
everything except for the springs and
put the car battery on that. allegedly.
>> That's right.
>> When
has that always been there in the agency
or is it that? And here's the thing. You
can't for what you did, you can't have
somebody that doesn't have that
mentality.
>> Correct.
>> But if you do, that can be the natural
byproduct because shooting yourself out
of that situation, the knock on the
door, an argument can be made like,
well, you know what? I'm actually going
to go hot before they open the door.
Well, it might be the maid, right?
>> Exactly. And that's and that's where you
know you you have to you develop some
cap tactical competence. You can set
yourself up a little bit but you have to
let it play out just a little bit. But
that mentality of we are going to fight
our way through this and we'll handle
the paperwork later is I know because
I've seen this firsthand the
justification for we need an answer from
this person right now.
>> Go get it.
I I have to tell you, I taught this
class at Liberty University,
uh, which is the largest evangelical
Christian university in the world, and I
taught there from 2008 to 2012. When
they first called me, I said, "Are you
sure you're looking for me?
What course do you want me to teach?"
>> Right? And they said, I said to them, I
said, 'We probably disagree on 99% of
the issues. Why do you want me? And the
dean, the dean of the Jesse Helm School
of Government says, um, torture is not
Christian. And I said, "Oh, okay. You
know what?" I said, "I'll take it." And
I enjoyed every minute that I was
working with these guys. Anyway, the
reason I'm bringing this up is there was
one professor in particular that I
became very close to. He spent a very
brief period of time from like 1958 to
1960 at the agency and then went into
academia.
And uh
he's very old now. He's in his in his
90s. But he sent me his final exam one
one semester and he said, "What do you
think of this final? I'm going to give
my students this final." And here I've
got this final. it's going to take them
hours and they're going to fill three
blue books and it's all these essay
questions. His was four questions and it
was live. So he had the first question
on the board and the other three
questions were covered. And the first
question is you are a CIA case officer.
You have just captured a major al-Qaeda
leader. You know that there is a bomb
somewhere in the United States set to go
off. You know that he knows the location
of the bomb. Do you torture him to get
the information? Yes. No. And explain
your reasoning. Okay.
>> Basically, this is the plot of the TV
show 24. By the way,
>> that's exactly what it is. It's the
ticking time bomb scenario.
>> Yeah. The second question was, he didn't
say a word, but you have his wife in
custody. Do you torture his wife to
force him to give you the information?
Remember, he says, remember American
lives are on the line. Yes. No. Explain
your decision. And then the third
question was, the wife is a true
believer. She didn't give you anything.
But you have their kids in custody. Do
you beat the kids? Do you torture the
kids in front of them? Yes. No. Explain
your reasoning.
And the fourth question you could only
ask at Liberty University. you've died
and you're standing before the judgment
seat of Christ and he says, "Explain
your actions." What do you tell him?
What you've just laid out is a very
difficult test
and everybody would have failed it.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. This is tough. I understand
I understand the underlying
motivation. The first three questions.
I'm not a religious person. It's never
just really landed with me.
>> Fully supportive of people being
religious. So,
>> I don't know what the hell happens at
the end of this track, you know, the lap
around the track. So, focusing on
>> I'm hoping for the best.
>> Same. Focusing on the other three.
>> Yeah.
>> I I I
understand
both answers.
>> And arguments can be made for both
answers. Mhm. Mhm. That's why this is
such a difficult proposition. But who do
we want to be? That's the question.
That's where I took the most [__] back
in 2007.
We're supposed to be better than that.
You know, I remember being in
fundamental disagreement with something
that Dick Cheney said at the time. He
said he would rather imprison a hundred
innocent men than to let one guilty man
go free. And I was exactly the opposite.
That's not what freedom is.
>> That's not what freedom is.
>> Freedom isn't about perfection. It's
about possibilities.
>> And it's not, you know, I used to have,
as dumb as this sounds, but um when I
was in the military, maybe it doesn't
sound dumb. I I deep I deeply I still
feel this way.
>> Over my door, I had a sticker that said,
"Freedom isn't free." Mhm.
>> And
>> that cost is borne by very few people
>> and it's a heavy it's a heavy burden to
carry at times and it can change who you
are and how you view the world. But it's
not perfect.
And those those the academic questions,
they capture a lot of the the weight of
those questions. But I tell you what,
>> you know, we had uh the special
operations community had a battlefield
interrogation program called bit on
>> that that had to be brutal sometimes.
But if you want if you wanted to see a
realworld case study that if you apply
pain to people they will talk but what
they say
>> that's the issue will have almost
nothing to do with reality or they will
tell you
>> what they think you want them
>> to say to make whatever it is is
happening to them
>> stop.
>> Um
>> and I'm not saying I witnessed torture
because I didn't. I witnessed what I
would call very very aggressive
interrogations and and honestly I'm not
a legal expert on where that falls. I
was never involved in the program as a
part of a program. This was all after
you know target secure and then we're
going through looking for sensitive
information that we can turn upstream to
intelligence organizations.
But you know follow on targets are a
real thing as well too and a lot of the
times we were driving that through
electronic means but every once in a
while you know somebody would be there
and uh I've seen it in real life. It
doesn't work the way people think.
>> It just doesn't.
>> It just doesn't. Yeah.
>> You know, I I say all the time that when
I was working for Carrie, um his office
was in the Russell building right near
uh John McCain. So, whenever Carrie and
I would be walking out of the office
like for a vote or something, McCain
would be coming out of his office to go
to the same vote and McCain would always
go out of his way to shake my hand and
say, "Hello." Hey, John. Hey, Senator.
Good to see you again. Finally, Carrie
said to me one day, "Why don't you and
McCain get a room or something?" And I
said, "No, no, he's this is this is
heartfelt. This is the kind of person he
is. It's about torture." I said,
>> "Mhm,
>> it's it's all about torture." And then
when I got out of prison, I was home, I
don't know, maybe 4 days or so, and I
got a call from his office, and the guy
says, "Senator McCain says, "Welcome
home." And he wants to know how he can
be helpful. And I said, "He can help me
get my pension back." I said, "These
Obama people took my pension and unless
I get a pardon, I just can't get the
pension back." So this friend of mine
who had been the deputy attorney general
and I went up to McCain's office to meet
with his legislative people. And what we
decided to do was brilliant.
My attorney wrote a one-s sentence
amendment.
It was
every American convicted of violating
the Intelligence Identities Protection
Act between October 1st and October
31st, 2012 shall hereby have his pension
reinstated cuz I was the only person in
the world.
>> Oh, I was going to say this is like
writing a soul source contract for like
the one contractor you need.
>> It's called a specific purpose bill.
So McCain said, I'll just stick it into
the National Defense Authorization Act.
He says, "Those things are like 3,000
pages long. Nobody reads them." He said,
"I'll stick it in." I said, "Yeah, but
then in conference committee, somebody's
going to take it out. Somebody on the
House side." And he said, "I'll get
myself named to the conference committee
and I'll make sure it stays in." I'm
like, "God bless you, Senator McCain."
And then he got sick.
>> Yeah.
>> And then he died and so it never
happened.
>> Do you think the agency has actually
stopped?
Wow. You know, people ask me that and
and again, there's the agency directly
or I found out about the rendition
program. I got into aviation when I was
uh exiting the military and I got type
rated to fly a Gulfream G4.
>> No way. Yeah. I thought you were going
to say a Cessna 172.
>> That's what I started in. We all We all
did.
>> We all did.
>> But you you went jet.
>> Yeah.
>> That's incredible. Congratulations. It
was It was fun. But I see where you're
going, too.
>> I started researching Gulf Streams.
>> Ah, I see exactly where this is going.
>> A GFream came up for sale.
>> Oh my god.
>> And one of the things that blew the lid
off the rendition program is that the
people looking to do the purchase of the
Gulfream dug into its flight history.
>> Oh god.
>> And they were like, "What the actual
fuck?"
>> Like Afghanistan to Egypt, Afghanistan,
Jordan.
And that was one of the things that
actually brought attention. It was an
agency probably third party.
>> Mhm.
>> But it was one of their rendition
platforms. That's how I heard about it.
It wasn't through the military. It
wasn't through the intelligence
community. It was just a it was an
interest in the airframe that I was
flying. We used to send a lot of people
to third countries
to be softened up. And I remember there
was a period when I got back from from
Pakistan, I was named chief of counter
inelligence in Alex, the Assama bin
Laden group. So my job was to ensure
that al-Qaeda couldn't infiltrate
American embassies, uh the embassy
staffs, the the third country nationals
employed in embassies, and that the
walk-ins that we were getting all around
the world were not really dangles from
al-Qaeda. It was it was a challenging
job.
>> Yeah. So we grabbed this professor from
the University of Toronto named uh Maher
Aar and a group of us went to the chief
of operations who we called the
red-headed devil
>> to his face.
>> Her face.
>> No, not to her face.
>> That was more of a behind the back one.
Okay. Yeah.
She was portrayed by Jessica Chastain in
uh Zero Dark 30.
>> Gotcha.
>> She doesn't look anything like Jessica
Chastain other than the red hair. So, we
went to the redheaded devil and we said,
"This is the wrong guy. We're snatching
the wrong guy." And she's like, "Oh, no,
we're not. This is the right guy. He's
dangerous." I'm like, "This is a [__]
political science professor in Canada.
He's not an al-Qaeda mastermind.
We grab him. He had gone to Tunisia to
visit family one summer, the summer of
O2.
And
he flew back. He was flying back to
Toronto, but he had to transit JFK. And
so we asked the FBI, just grab him when
he gets off the plane at JFK, completely
off the books. Turn him over to us. We
flew him to Damascus
and we said, "Have at him."
The Syrians finally came back. Fast
forwarding, Syrians finally came back to
us like eight or nine months later and
they're like, "This is the wrong guy.
We've done everything to this guy and he
doesn't know anything. He's just the
wrong guy." We denied and denied and
denied to the Canadians that he was ever
on that plane. What we didn't know was,
you know how like an hour before you
land the the flight attendants go up and
down the thing saying duty free, duty
free. He bought a pair of sunglasses for
his wife and he used a credit card. So a
month after he goes missing and the
Canadians are telling his wife, "He
wasn't on the plane. We don't know what
you want us to say. He wasn't on the
plane." She said, "Yeah, then why did he
use his his credit card on the plane to
buy a pair of sunglasses in the
duty-free?" And the Canadians were like,
"Oh [__] the Americans have him." And
then we had to let him go. So we told
the Syrians, "Just let him go." He flew
back to Canada. He sued us in the
Eastern District of Virginia. CIA went
in to the courtroom and said, "Your
honor, national security." And the judge
is like, "Case dismissed with prejudice.
national security 911 national security.
So he sued the government of Canada and
he won $6 million. I spoke to him I'm
gonna say it's been a while now. I spoke
to him about 5 years ago. I asked him if
he would come on my podcast and he said
uh he said he can't. He said I have
developed such agorophobia.
He said
I haven't left my house the four walls
of my house. He said, "In 15 years," and
he said, "Even to be on a Zoom call,
I just can't do it." He said, "I'll have
a panic attack. I'll have to be
hospitalized. I just can't do it." We
ruined his life.
>> Can you imagine if that was a US citizen
and a third an
>> nation had done that?
>> We'd be bombing them right now for what
they did to an American.
>> Mhm.
problem is how many
>> there was another guy how many of those
stories exist?
>> Yeah.
Khaled al-Mis I think his name was
German guy owned a grocery store.
One night he gets in a fight with his
wife and he's like ah [__] you. He's so
mad he walks out, buys a bus ticket.
He's going to go visit his brother in
Montenegro.
The name Almissi,
it's not really a name. It just means
the Egyptian. Muslim is Arabic for
Egypt. So his name is Khaled the
Egyptian. Okay. There are only about
150,000 other guys named Khaled al-Mis.
>> You're like Abu Muhammad.
>> Exactly.
>> The number of times I went after Abu
Muhammad
>> with a picture of a like basically
>> Muhammad's dad.
>> Yeah. A green silhouette. I'm like
>> he's got olive colored skin.
>> Yeah. He has no features to his face
whatsoever. Looks like a flat 3D green
silhouette. So, this guy is on a bus and
he's in like Serbia on his way to uh
Montenegro and a sister agency informs
us that there's this Egyptian guy named
Khaled and he's going to blow up the
American embassy in Tana, Albania. And
we're like, "Wait a minute. There's
another guy named Khaled and he's
Egyptian and he's on a bus going in the
general direction of Albania. It must be
him." So we tell the Serbs, "Stop the
bus, grab him, and turn him over to us."
And that's exactly what they do. We send
him to Egypt, and they torture him to
within an inch of his life. And they're
like, "Yeah, this is the wrong guy. This
guy's just named Khaled. He happens to
be Egyptian. When he gets out of the the
torture chamber in Cairo to return to to
Germany, he's got a beard down to his
waist and he's clutching a copy of the
Quran. And a German reporter asked him,
"What are you going to do now?" And he
said, "All I want to do is kill
Americans."
Today's episode is brought to you by
Brunt Workware.
Probably one of the coolest things about
this brand, other than the quality and
comfort right out of the box, is this.
They actually let you wear the boots to
work before deciding if you want to keep
them. A real job site on real work days,
not just walking around at your house.
And if they're not right for you, you
can send them back for a full refund.
That is a 100% risk-free trial. So,
Brunt sent me some Omen boots, which
I've talked about before. They are
essentially a Chelsea boot. It's the
first pair of boots I've had that didn't
have laces. They were slip-on. My
daughter saw me wearing them and she is
in a welding program right now. So, she
asked me for a set of low top brunt work
boots, which I got her a pair. She just
recently asked me for a high top pair of
the same boots. She says the same things
that I do about these right out of the
box. Perfect fit, super comfortable, and
my daughter is quite picky. Anybody who
has a 17-year-old daughter can attest to
that. the fact that she has two pairs
and specifically asked, she said, "This
is how my daughter asked me for things.
Hey, Dad, do you think you can get me
this exact boot in this size, in this
color way, and in this shank?" And I'm
like, "Yes, I think I can." I can
appreciate the fact that she's that
specific. This is the boot she wanted,
though. Again, these are no doubt the
most comfortable boots I've ever worn.
Comfortable right out of the box. No
long painful break-in period like other
brands that I have experienced. I'm sure
you all have, too. They're built to
perform. Whether you need them to be
waterproof, safety toe, soft toe, pull
on or lace up, they got you covered. And
Brunt stands behind what they make. Like
I said, you can wear them to work. If
they're right for you, send them back.
And I don't know of any other brand
doing that, and that is a company that
believes in their product. So, right
now, for a limited time, listeners are
going to get $10 off Brunt when you use
the code cleared hot at checkout. Just
head to bruntworkware.com, use the code
cleared, and you are good to go. Brunt
was tired of the workware brands out
there cutting corners. You work too hard
to be stuck in uncomfortable boots that
don't hold up. So, they built something
better. Boots that are insanely
comfortable and built for any job site.
For a limited time, again, listeners get
$10 off Brunt when you use the code
cleared hot at checkout. Just head to
bruntwork.com, use the code cleared hot,
and you're good to go. After your order,
they're going to ask how you heard about
Brunt. Do me a favor, tell them it was
from the show. That's all I got. Back to
the show.
Yeah, it's not a viable program.
It grates against every fiber of who I
want us to be as a nation.
>> I agree with you.
>> How do you think it worked its way
through the agency to a place where it
was an approved program?
>> Don't underestimate the level of shame
in the agency after 9/11.
>> Meaning they they thought that they had
missed something. It was their fault.
>> Yeah. This was all our fault. We were
asleep at the switch. And then it was
actually worse than just being asleep at
the switch. It was that we knew the
hijackers were in the United States. We
didn't want the FBI to know.
>> Yeah. A lot of it was just not being
able to share information appropriately
or not.
>> Yeah. Because we wanted to recruit them.
>> Well, also if it was anything like the
pre 911 SEAL teams, we wouldn't even
share information. Like I would start
off at on the West Coast.
>> Seal team 5, three, and one were a
shitty nine iron from each other. But
nothing was happening and we were all
afraid if the big mish came up it would
go to somebody else. So we would just in
the absence of an enemy we had to fight
each other and all we were actually
fighting for was relevance and another
word for that is budget.
>> So I I mean I know the world the pre 911
world where it's you know the agencies
got their stuff and then there's the FBI
and the NS and but it's like we have to
protect our budget we have to protect
our relevance. How if we share this
information what's going to happen? I
don't know, maybe the US will be a
little bit safer and we can put some
pieces together. But again, that's
judging in hindsight.
>> It's all to say I understand where that
mentality came from.
>> Oh, I can't tell you how many times over
the years pre 911
um we would either do something or
prepare to do something and at the last
minute would the boss would say, "Don't
tell the FBI."
He's like, "Okay, I won't tell the FBI."
Do you think you guys would have been
able to actually recruit or turn any of
the hijackers?
>> I don't think so either.
>> They were true believers. Yeah, true
believers.
>> God, they were I uh I took flight
lessons in Montgomery Field where some
of them did afterwards. Obviously,
>> there was a little bit more scrutiny of
students. Yeah.
>> And and you didn't say I don't need to
learn how to land just to take off.
>> Too soon. Jump. Too soon. It was too
soon. Yeah. They I mean they were going
to I mean in the typewriting course for
the Gulfream it all occurs in a
simulator cuz they are not
>> very impressed that you oh my god got
jetqualified. It's incredible to me.
>> They're not going to throw you the keys
to a jet even though there are no keys
to a jet really except for the door like
you're not finding the ignition and just
like oh you got to put the clutch in and
put it in neutral. It doesn't work like
that. So it's all done in these sims and
it's every phase of flight.
It's a It's a
Chinese Communist Party ticker tape
parade of red flags. If somebody goes in
and says,
>> "Can you just have me focus on the phase
of flight where I'm flying?"
>> Like, what?
>> Mhm. Nobody thought to run that sucker.
>> Literally nobody at any level.
>> Yeah. Nobody thought that was unusual
enough to alert a superior. Even in a
non 911 world, it's like, "Hey, make a
call."
>> You know, I don't know how you guys
work, but maybe have a an additional SIM
instructor sitting in there with them
just like
>> That's right.
>> Putting an eyeball on these guys. You
know, it
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. It's uh
>> So, you're like John Travolta, huh?
>> I don't believe in Scientology, so
there's some differences.
>> I'm not an OT7 or an OT8, whatever
level.
>> Right. Right. Well, you got to be
careful of those theatons.
>> No, but seriously, he he even has flown
747s.
>> I think he owns one.
>> He owns a 74. Very impressive. But I
mean, flying a Cessna 172 is one thing.
Everybody can do that. But they all kind
of fly. I mean, the theory of flight is
all the same.
>> It's the same. And the plane is designed
that it wants to stay in the air. Yes.
>> Right. Unless it's breaking apart or
something.
>> Well, then you're screwed.
>> Yeah. Then you're screwed. Right. Unless
you're in a a Cirrus SR SR22, which has
a parachute,
>> which are amazing. I flew those for
about 1500 hours.
>> You're kidding me.
>> Yeah.
>> I got into helicopters about two years
ago.
>> I heard those are especially difficult.
They are very different.
>> I would describe it as this. Flying an
airplane is you have a metal bowl and a
BB and you're holding it at the bottom
just trying to keep it.
>> Right. Right. Right.
>> A helicopter, you flip the bowl upside
down and the BB's on top and you're
trying to keep it on top.
>> Oh my god. So much more handsyfooty, if
you will. It's uh it's fun.
>> You know, I went to Arlington Cemetery
the other day. I I go every couple of
months, and I I live within walking
distance of it, and it's just such a
beautiful, humbling place. So, I went to
do
a a video podcast on CIA officers buried
at Arlington or or
two of them were pre-CIA, they were OSS.
But anyway, one of the graves that we
went to, and I I put flags at each one
of them, was Francis Gary Powers. This
poor guy, besides the whole YouTube
thing, and we denied that he was not
only just denied that he was CIA, we
denied that he was USG at all. M
>> and then finally had to trade him, you
know, in one of these bridge of spies
situations. But this poor guy after
piloting the U2 ended up piloting a
traffic helicopter in LA and then he
crashed that and was killed in the
crash.
A U2 pilot
>> lost control of a traffic helicopter.
That's how hard they are to fly.
>> Well, there are mechanical things that
can happen as well where even if you're
doing the right thing,
>> you're still going to crash. Yeah, like
the there was a recent crash, the one in
New York, the passenger, the tour. It
looks like the main rotor blades
departed from the aircraft. There's
nothing you can do. No, you're
>> you're going to die.
>> You're you're going to die in that. That
was probably total hypothesis and guess
on my side a maintenance issue that was
undiagnosed.
>> So, when you fire that thing up and you
get it off the ground, that day was your
day. There's nothing you're going to be
able to do.
>> I'm sorry to get off topic, but I'm so
fascinated that that you're
jetqualified. I've got to ask you. I I
don't know because I think because when
I went to get my when I went I was
serving in Athens. We work a full
workday one day and all the guys from
the counterterrorism group there there
was a bar in the it was like a shack but
it's it served they serve beer in the
parking lot of the of the embassy. So we
would go there and drink beers which
believe me at the time was better than
going home. So, uh, one of them said
something about
about, uh, flying the the Cessna 172,
and I said, "Oh, I didn't know you were
a pilot." He said, "Oh, yeah. I've been
a pilot for years." And then the second
guy said, "I loved my Cessna 172 so much
I bought one." And I go, "You're a
pilot, too?" And then the third one
said, "Um, I started on the 172 and then
I went to the 182, the twin engine." And
I said, "Come on, you guys. Come on.
You're putting me on, right?" And then
the fourth one says, "I'm older than you
guys. I learned on a Piper Cub and they
don't do that anymore." And I said, "Are
you telling me that all four of you guys
are pilots?"
>> Yeah, you missed the memo somewhere.
>> Seriously. And then one of them, the one
I was closest to, he goes, "What's the
matter, baby? You afraid to get a
pilot's license?" I said, "If you morons
can get pilots licenses, I certainly
can." That's also accurate with me as
well, too, so don't be too impressed.
Well, I I I went home on RNR a couple of
months later and I was driving my dad to
Walmart in Newcastle, Pennsylvania, and
there's kind of a back road, like a
cutthrough, and you go past
Newcastle Municipal Airport, which is
just a strip, and they have a banner
outside and it says, "Learn to fly
here." So, I said, "Dad, give me 5
minutes. I just want to run in here real
quick." So, I pull in, I go up to the
guy, I said, "How much is it and how
long does it take?" He said, 'If you're
serious about it, you can do it in six
weeks. And mind you, this is 26 years
ago. It's a flat $5,000. So, I pulled
out my credit card. I said, "Sign me
up." And 6 weeks later, I soloed. But
then 911 came.
>> Yeah.
>> And then I I just there there's no time
to do anything.
>> No.
>> Let alone, you know, try to get flight
hours in.
>> Now you got time, though.
>> Now, and and
in the next couple of months, I'll be
able to afford it. That would be
amazing.
>> I actually called the airport the other
day at uh College Park, Maryland, and
they said, "Oh, yeah, sure." I said,
"Listen, I want a Sirrus SR22." And the
guy said, "We've got three of them."
Yeah.
>> I said, "Oh my god, okay, I'm going to
do it."
>> Yep. I have uh sub I got my instrument
rating in a Cirrus. I have a substantial
amount of time in Assirus. They're a
great platform.
>> Have you ever flown the uh Diamond DA40?
>> No, but I know what you're talking
about. The school that I um was going
through my ratings at just didn't have
any. Otherwise, from a economic
perspective, I probably would have gone
that route.
>> I heard that they're light as a feather
and really easy to fly. They're made in
Austria.
>> Yeah. And economically, they're very
efficient, so it'll reduce the cost of
your training as well, too.
>> And my original question to you was
going to be I I love going to little
airports cuz they always have coffee
shops. Yep.
>> And you can just sit there and have
breakfast. I used to take my kids when
they were little little and we would go
watch the planes take off and land and
have pancakes and, you know, whatever,
call it a morning. But I would always
pick up the used planes for sale
magazines that are there. And um
invariably in the back they always have
like MIGs from the Czech Air Force. And
it was mostly MiGs.
>> Yeah.
>> I have you've ever flown something like
that? Like is it
>> a backseat ride in a MiG 29 last year?
>> Really?
>> Boseman, Montana.
>> What was that like?
>> Uh it was like being strapped to two
rockets. Ah, see that's that's what I
would be afraid of.
>> So Jared Isaacman, the now head of NASA,
was the guy flying it.
>> Oh my god.
>> He has a private jet collection because
they used to be the OP for they
contracted out to be the OP for foreign
adversaries for US pilot training.
>> Ah, that makes sense.
>> So he had a MiG 29 down in Bosezeman and
buddy calls me up, asks me a incredibly
rhetorical question of do I want to go
on a backseat ride in a Mig 29? Like do
you not know who I am? Of course I want
to do that. I tell you what, I can tie
this into you with something that I
think is the one of the largest threats
to national security.
>> Small private airports.
>> Yeah,
>> totally. The next 911 is not going to
come from a commercial airport. The the
completely
>> unregulated open nature of almost all
small municipal city airports would
knock people on their ass if they
understood how easy it is to just get in
and out of and manipulate those systems.
I have been like screaming like we're up
near the northern border. I don't know
if you know this, but we haven't had an
illegal crossing in nine months.
Somebody said that.
>> Uh and I was like, "Okay,
>> on the Canadian side."
>> Oh, no, no, no. Trump uh put out that we
haven't had a single illegal crossing in
9 months.
>> Come on.
>> Swear to God, Michael. Pull that [__]
up.
>> So, I saw that on Twitter. I was like,
"So, you've never been to Mont?" Yeah.
I'm like, "Come on." Like, why why would
you speak in absolutes when that's so
demonstrabably false? Mhm. the southern
border. I get what I can't get people to
pay attention to is yeah say that his
administration achieved nine consecutive
months with zero mind you zero o
>> has he never been to Texas I
>> I don't understand how any of this stuff
makes it out in into the world of
factchecking but it the velocity seems
to be increasing
but I have done so many conversations
now on change agents about the northern
influence and you know, precursor
chemicals going to the port of Vancouver
as opposed to places in Mexico and
>> how poorest the border is. I flew I was
with my buddy uh John Norris who was a
game warden in California and started an
anti- uh marijuana task force there who
now lives 60 miles to the east and we
got in the helicopter and I just we flew
up to the northern border just to get it
on video and show it's just mowed grass
and nobody's I mean if I was any level
of sophisticated individual first off
the ability to get in Canada on
passports is way easier than it is in
the US I would 100% go that route.
get rid of that stuff. Walk across the
like that's what concerns me more and
nobody's nobody's paying attention to it
that I can tell at least it's a huge
huge liability for this country.
>> Uhhuh.
>> So
>> I think you're 100% right.
>> I mean I'm hoping the agency has a
northern border task force. I don't
think so.
>> Not that I've ever heard of.
>> Yeah.
>> You know it's funny, too. I mean, are
they even allowed to? Aren't you guys
not supposed to be working in the US?
What's
>> forbidden?
>> Forbidden.
>> Okay, I understand it says that on
paper. Have they ever not worked in the
US?
>> Well, there's there's a US division
called the National Resources Division,
but the the job of an NR case officer is
very simply to call up American CEOs,
CFOs, COOs, and say, "Hey, I heard you
just went to China. Can I come to the
office and ask you some questions?"
Yeah,
>> that's it. That's all they do. I feel
like the agency is doing more than that
in the US.
>> Well, I suspect strongly that they are
and they're not supposed to.
>> How do we get that under check, John?
>> You know, it probably started with these
JTFs, right?
>> The joint terrorism task force.
>> Joint terrorism task force is there.
>> Is that because of the authorities that
came with that?
>> Yeah,
>> they can do anything that they want. And
technically, you're you're you're on
assignment on rotation to a JTF. So,
it's a CIA guy, an FBI guy, a State
Department guy, some DHS people.
>> It's all about keeping America safe and
next thing you know, you have CIA people
operating domestically.
>> And how do you unwind that once that
starts?
>> Only through robust congressional
oversight, which is not happening. I
feel like the agency itself would rebel
against that or do everything they could
especially if you have the ability to
say national security like agreed done.
>> So then do
>> do we build CIA 2.0 like what do we do?
>> Oh my god. You know the the first time I
ever worked with MI5 I'm gonna I'm gonna
answer your question with an anecdote.
First time I ever worked with MI5
>> I was I was serving in Athens. I was
working against a guy that when I teach
these classes, nobody's ever heard of.
And then when I say he was the Osama bin
Laden of the 70s and 80s, I said his
name was Carlos the Jackal. They just
look at me with these blank stars.
>> I've seen the movies,
>> right? At least at least watch the
movie.
>> Yeah. They look at me like they've never
ever heard this name before.
So,
what I was trying to do was figure out
who the middleman was between Carlos the
Jackal and the Greek terrorist group
revolutionary organization 17 November.
So, I got a uh I got a tip about a guy
who was the middleman back in the day
and uh and I found him and he's living
in a housing project in London.
So, I reached out to my MI6 counterparts
and they said, "We'll find him, but this
is an MI5 issue. You'll work with MI5.
Just let us know what what you find." I
said, "Fine." So, I I fly to London, and
I did this like every few weeks over the
course of six months. We find the guy.
It wasn't until I was working with them
that I learned that they do not have
arrest powers. H.
>> And I said, I always thought MI6 was the
British CIA. MI5 was the British FBI.
They said, no, Scotland Yard is the
British FBI. I said, so what's MI5? He
said, we are domestic intelligence. We
spy on Britain's.
And I said, I don't think I like that at
all. By like by their doctrine and
charter that Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> I was not aware of that either.
>> I never heard that before.
>> Yeah. I thought they were externally
facing an anal an analogous to the
agency as well.
>> Yeah, they are. But they're only
domestic and they can't make arrests. I
said, "This this just turns my worldview
on its head." And they're like, "Yeah,
we're even worse than you guys are."
Yeah.
So, I think I fear that that's where
we're headed. Even if it's in slow
motion. Again, it's been 25 years since
9/11.
>> So, but but I'm I'm worried that we've
got any number of intelligence a there
are 18 intelligence agencies in the US
government, which just flabbergasts
people overseas when you tell them that
cuz most countries have one. Some big
countries have two, like the Brits,
>> the Australians, the Canadians. We have
18. Like, do we really need 18 separate
intelligence services? Seriously,
>> come on.
>> I mean, I'm sure their budgets are
small.
>> You know, I'd be comfortable paying more
taxes if they could show me where my tax
money went.
>> I I I would I would like that very much.
>> Let's just be transparent. Show me where
this money is going. And
>> And I won't object. Yeah.
>> Just Just tell me where it's going. And
I'd say, "Okay, thank you. Go ahead.
Spend Spend my tax money the way you see
fit." Yeah.
>> Thanks for being transparent.
>> Yeah. I'm not a betting man, John, but
if I was, we're not getting that.
>> I think I think we're not. Oh, so I was
going to make a point, too.
I'm not saying that
people on Capitol Hill just have their
heads up their asses and they're not
interested in in oversight. A great part
of the problem is
using just the CIA as an example. I I
don't know how many people are in the
CIA. It's classified anyway, 20, 30,
40,000 people. I don't have any idea.
But you can't oversee an agency that has
20, 30, 40,000 people with a staff of 40
on Capitol Hill. You can't do it. It's
not possible. And then you've got DNI on
top of it.
>> Besides
DIA, FBI, NSA,
Homeland Security, the Uniformed
Services Intelligence Services, you
can't do it. It's just not possible.
>> I think we have to add to that too the
cottage industry of people who leave
>> threeletter agencies and start
consultancy firms in the DC area or
>> everybody got rich everybody.
>> And it's, you know, it's like, okay,
cool. These people don't work for the
agency, not meaning necessarily the,
we'll just call them the alphabet soup
organizations. Sure. They're not working
directly for that, but you're
contracting them to essentially do a job
that would be what they used to do and
now they can operate outside of certain
boundaries because of a tax status.
>> That's right.
>> That how do you even quantify or
calculate that as well too because that
although not directly associated with
those alphabet soup agencies are still
being paid through the budget of the you
know what I mean?
>> Yes.
>> It's a cottage industry and I know very
little about it but I know that it
exists. It's a not a revolving door
process but like hey we got a problem we
need to solve. We can't do it doctrally
here. Who's getting close to retirement?
Hey man, here's your here's your greased
money train. I cannot even begin to tell
you how many people that I worked with
in the CIA's counterterrorism center
that would leave work on Friday with a
blue staff badge, come back on Monday
with a green contractor badge, making
three times what they were making on
Friday, sitting in the same desk doing
the same job. You know, I say all the
time too on podcasts, it's not an
accident that before 9 911, the highest
concentration of millionaires in America
was in Silicon Valley and after 9/11, it
was Washington DC.
>> Is it really?
>> Damn. I mean, there certainly is a
business around war.
>> You got that right.
>> And it's ugly.
>> Yeah. And it goes forever because too
many people are getting rich. Why stop
it?
Man, what are your thoughts on the
invasion of Iraq 2004?
Man, I argue with my dad on this one. I
was a young man in a profession of arms
and I wanted what all young men want in
a profession of arms, somebody to fight.
>> My dad is a Vietnam veteran, and he was
like,
>> "Listen, kid,
there's something wrong with the smell
of this cheese."
>> He was right. He was right. I still
haven't admitted that to him because he
can be right about nothing. So, he will.
Now, it's interesting now looking back
at it.
>> That plan to go into that country
predated 911 for sure.
>> Absolutely. Yes.
>> There's a famous story ring binder on
the shelf somewhere.
>> You know, I I
I I blew up on TikTok about
eight weeks ago. I would say
congratulations, but I'm not sure that's
a good thing.
>> Yeah, I I'm the juryy's still out. But
one of the things that really blew up
that's taken on a life of its own is
this uh story
is this story that I tell about Colin
Powell calling me one morning, 1993. You
know, every every group in the CIA has a
morning meeting at 9:00. Every single
group. And you talk about what happened
overnight in the area that you cover.
And these meetings last 30 minutes and
then you start your day.
And I go into the morning meeting and
the secretary walks in and she says,
"John," like with this puzzlement, she
says, "John, General Powell's on the
phone for you." And I said, "For me?" I
said, "How does General Pal know who I
am?" And she said, "I don't know, but he
asked for you by name." And I look at my
boss and he goes, "Well, go answer the
phone." So I go to my secure phone and I
said, "Good morning, General Pal. May I
help you?" He was the uh chairman of the
joint chiefs. I think at the time he was
chairman of the joint chiefs. Clinton
had just become president.
I said, "Good morning, General Pal. May
I help you?" And without missing a beat,
he says, "John, if the Iraqis were going
to kill the president, who would
actually be in charge of carrying out an
operation like that?"
>> It's a very pointed question.
>> Yeah. Very specific.
>> Yeah. And I said, if you're talking
about the attempt to assassinate former
President Bush,
all Kuwait operations are run from Iraq
uh Iraq's Basra station and Basra
station operations are run by the Iraqi
intelligence service director. Is that
is that Ibrahim Sabra Abdul Aziz Adori?
And he says, "Where does he physically
sit?" And I said, "In Iraqi intelligence
service headquarters in Baghdad." And he
says, "Thank you." and he hangs up. So,
I go back in and everybody's waiting for
me. My boss said, "What do you want?" I
said, "He had a very specific question."
And I I told them. And we're like,
"Okay." And then we went on with the
meeting. 8 hours later, we fired 47
cruise missiles into Iraqi intelligence
service headquarters. And the reason why
this has taken on a life of its own is
because
the only person we killed was a janitor.
It was middle of the night, Iraq time,
and we killed the janitor. He was the
only person in the building. And I went
to the office the next day, and I said
to my boss, "I killed that janitor last
night."
>> And he said, "I knew you were going to
say that you didn't kill the janitor.
Powell killed the janitor. You didn't
know why Powell wanted the information.
And you did what you're trained to do.
You answered the man's question." But
it's always bothered me. You know, if if
we had killed Saddam Hussein, I would
have said,
>> "Yeah,
>> I killed Saddam Hussein." Y
>> where's my Presidential Medal of
Freedom? But it wasn't Saddam Hussein.
It was some poor guy probably had a
couple of kids at home. Never meant any
harm to anybody.
>> Why' they strike it at night?
>> You know, it was this weird [__] up
policy of the Clinton administration
that by God, we're going to show them
how tough we are. We don't want to kill
anybody cuz we don't want to be
bloodthirsty. So, we're going to do it
in the middle of the night. Okay. Well,
that they laugh at us when we do stupid
stuff like that.
>> Yeah.
>> So, anyway, there was this there was
this belief
all through the eight years of the
Clinton administration that we're going
to get these damn Iraqis one of these
days. We're going to get them. It might
take us a while, but we're going to get
these bastards. And then there's a
famous story about
the 12th of September 2001, Richard
Pearl being at the White House telling
everybody who would listen. And he was
friends with all of them from Scoop
Jackson's office when they were young
men. Telling everybody, you know, we
have to attack Iraq, right? You know, we
have to attack Iraq, right?
So, the fix was in from the beginning.
What do they say? Never let a tragedy go
to waste. There it is.
That's that's the modern history of the
United States right there.
>> I'll be really curious to see how the
history books judge our involvement in
Iraq. Afghanistan, I think, was at least
more altruistic and why we execution
>> arguable for sure. Sure. But but the
reason to go into Afghanistan that was a
righteous war.
>> It was righteous. The beginning of it
was, you know, we had to destroy
al-Qaeda. We had to. They were saying
Osama bin Laden said that he was
planning another attack that would dwarf
911. So, we had to stop them. They had
murdered 3,000 Americans in one day.
>> That was a righteous war. Iraq was not
>> such a commitment of like America's
treasure. And I'm not talking about
money. Just the cascading consequences
of two decades. See, and that's another
thing, Andy, is there's never any even
after war after war after war, there's
never any thought to the blowback. Like,
why do we never have that conversation?
It's easy to invade a country. I I said
this recently in an interview. It's easy
to invade a country. It's easy to
overthrow a government. The rest of it
is really, really hard. How do you get
out? And how do you get out without
leaving the place in a state of anarchy?
Look at Libya. We overthrew that
government in 2009
and it's still a in a state of chaos.
>> Yeah. I don't know why people think that
Iran will be any different.
>> Iran is the size of Western Europe. It
has 92 million people and a forbidding
topog topography.
>> Mhm.
>> How do we win something like that?
Unless you want to commit, you know,
400,000 troops, which we're not going to
do.
>> We tried that on their eastern and
western border.
>> Exactly.
>> Yes.
>> I look back at that now I'm like, okay,
not that I am arguing for eating the
delicious center of the Iraq Afghanistan
Oreo.
But that's probably the time we have had
more military firepower and projection
of power on their eastern and western
border.
Yes, they death to America is a real
thing. Yes, largest state sponsor of
terrorism. Yes, we've had issues for
five decades.
>> Maybe it would have been a better idea
to handle it while we were already
there.
>> But I'm God.
>> You know, I remember when we first
attacked Iraq in early ' 03, we had to
go to the Iranians and say, "Listen,
we're going to cross your border a
couple of times. If we do, it's going to
be an accident. We don't intend to
remain. It might be one plane. It might
be one jeep full of guys. We mean
nothing by it. Our fight is with the
Iraqis. And the Iranians said, "Just
keep us out of it." And we were okay
with that. Just let us enrich our
uranium.
I
>> Nobody wants a nuclear Iran. I think we
can all agree that.
>> Nobody does. I thought we destroyed
their nuclear capability last year and
now
>> I think the word was obliterated.
>> Yeah. And I don't know a lot about big
words, but I think I know what that one
is hinting at. And then it's no like no,
we had to go now because it was at the
tipping point. And there's so much I
mean I can't separate the amount of
external control Israel may have over
the decision-making of the US. I don't I
don't know what to make sense of this
[__] stew that people are just pouring
into with absolute certainty about what
it is that they're saying,
>> which anybody who's absolutely that sure
about anything already scares me. I love
things like I believe, I think,
>> which is not what the terms that the
news. I I don't know what to make sense
of it. I could see other countries
having influence. And one thing I've
heard people say is, well, Israel came
to the US and they said, either you do
it or we're going to use nukes, right?
So it was this le well there's other
nuclear powers. So what if Russia says
hey you need to smash Ukraine for us or
we're going to use nukes. Are we going
to go do that next?
>> Right.
>> Good question.
>> India says you know what we're tired of
these [__] on our border. You either
do something about Pakistan or or we're
going to like what does that make us the
world's [__] Like we just go around
and play nuclear cleanup. I don't buy
that.
>> See that? That's an oped right there.
>> That's an oped. I don't know that.
>> That's a great that's a great line of
analysis. I I might steal it if you're
not if you're not going to publish it.
>> No, I'm not publishing [__]
>> Nobody wants me to publish an op-ed.
First, I'd have to look up what the [__]
op-ed means, but and how you do that.
But that to me, again, it's the same
thing as Epstein. The AAMS razor
approach to me is the is the one that
makes the most sense to me. I also don't
come from the intelligence world, so I'm
just trying to look at this
realistically.
It doesn't make there's too many other
people that could then and if they saw
if that was proven to be true, they'd be
lining up at like a lemonade stand to
pull that [__] To me, the saddest part
of this whole thing is that the JCPOA,
the joint comprehensive plan of action,
it was working. You know, whether or not
twothirds of the Senate uh ratified it,
the answer is no, they didn't. whether
or not it became partisan, it was
working. It was almost exactly the same
deal that we had through the United
Nations with Saddam Hussein's government
through um
uh the UN Security Council resolution
986, right? Unannounced
uh inspections by United Nations weapons
inspectors, lead seals, cameras going in
every direction 24/7. It was actually
working. I get that Donald Trump didn't
want Barack Obama to have that kind of a
foreign policy win. I get it. But
withdrawing us unilaterally from the
JCPOA put us back at square one again.
>> And what we're hoping to get now
um
is the exact same language that was in
the JCPOA.
no uranium enrichment and we want to
inspect the nuclear sites and we want
them to be sealed. Okay, we already had
all that and we withdrew. So now you
want to renegotiate the the same
agreement and how many what with 13
people have died on our side already for
what? For nothing. For literally
nothing.
>> This is why now you're going to get me
started now here. We need to operate
utterly independently of the Israelis.
I've said a million times. I'm going to
repeat it. Starting in the mid1 1980s
when Ronald Reagan was president, every
single Israeli prime minister, no matter
who it was, when they came to the United
States, and they come all the time, they
would say, "Please attack Iran. Please
attack Iran. Please attack Iran." And
every single president said, "I'm not
going to do it."
Obama said what, two weeks ago that
Netanyahu came and said, "If you don't
attack Iran, we're going to use nuclear
weapons." And Obama said, "Go ahead. Go
ahead, use them." And he called the
bluff. And they didn't use them. Since
1986,
the Iranians have been 6 months away
from a nuclear weapon. Well, guess what?
No, they're not. That's a lie. There
have been two, count them, two national
intelligence estimates. What a national
intelligence estimate is is it's a sense
of the community of the intelligence
community formal paper
and this is important. If the CIA writes
a paper okay congratulations this is the
CIA believes this or DIA believes that
or state department believes this other
thing. An NIE national intelligence
estimate is you have all 18 intelligence
agencies sitting around a giant table in
the offices of the National Intelligence
Council and they're going sentence by
sentence. Okay, the first sentence is
and the the National Intelligence
Officer reads it. Anybody have any
objections? And all 18 people get to
weigh in. It takes weeks normally to
coordinate a paper like this. All 18
intelligence agencies concluded
decisively twice that the Iranians did
not have a nuclear weapons program.
>> How recent were these?
>> The first one was 2003
and the other one was like 2009
something like that. And in addition,
Ayatah Kamayi issued a fatwa saying that
it was a sin to develop a nuclear weapon
and that's why they were not enriching
to weaponsgrade
levels.
>> Yeah.
>> And the Israelis said they didn't give a
[__] They want us to bomb bomb bomb.
>> So finally we did.
>> The meeting that you're talking about
where there first off I'm surprised that
any you fill a room with 18 different
agencies. I'm actually surprised
anything ever in the world gets
accomplished. I'm not exaggerating when
I tell you I never hated anything in my
entire career as much as coordinating an
NIE. I was the deputy national
intelligence officer for a while. Um,
and then to get promoted to GS14,
I had to write an NIE. So I wrote this
NIE in 19
and it was called Iraq colon Saddam's
next 12 months
and we coordinated it in 8 hours and the
national intelligence officer Ben Bon
God rest his soul terrific guy he came
to me afterwards and he said that was
the fastest coordination session for an
NIE that I've seen in 25 years and I
said this one was Actually pretty easy,
Ben. Saddam could threaten Kuwait.
Saddam could threaten the Kurds. Saddam
could threaten the Shia. Saddam will
probably try to violate sanctions.
>> Yeah,
>> big deal.
>> So, are those NIEs in layman's terms,
are they a way to assess
risk and then you can brief policy
makers?
>> That's exactly what they're for. And so
the reason I asked this is it's
listening to Tulsi Gabbard testify
>> and she said essentially I'm
paraphrasing Michael if you could pull
it up that Trump is the
single or sole individual that
determines the immediiacy of the threat.
>> Mhm.
>> I feel like that premise is incredibly
dangerous.
>> It is dangerous. But and I also don't
know is that is that a real assessment
because wouldn't an organization or
organizations create something like an
NIE and he would be able to I'm assuming
that that is the role of intelligence
organizations and and and maybe this is
a gross misunderstanding of what she was
saying but if that's the case what if
one day after we're done with Iran he
goes Mexico is an imminent threat like
is it really like that? Like the guy
sitting in the chair with the Diet Coke
button gets to just determine it like
that.
>> This the
>> Am I misunderstanding?
>> No, no, you you've hit it on the head.
The answer to the question is very
complicated. So the CIA really any
intelligence service I should say
>> sole individual authorized to determine
what constitutes an imminent threat. I
thought that that was the role of the
intelligence apparatus. The intelligence
apparatus will say the intelligence
community does not believe that Iran is
an imminent threat. The president can
elect to ignore that. So technically,
sure, he's the decision maker. He's the
one that's going to make the final call.
>> Any other president in modern American
history has been surrounded by, you
know, the best and the brightest, and
this guy was a professor at Harvard, and
this guy was the deputy assistant
secretary of whatever, and this guy, you
know, whatever. you you surround
yourself with people who know these
things, the Henry Kissingers of their
day, although I hate to use that
example, but you know what I mean.
>> Um, so technically the president is the
final authority on these issues, but any
other president will ask the secretary
of state, what do you think? Secretary
of Defense, what do you think? National
Security Adviser, what do you think? CI
director, what do you think? And
everybody's going to weigh in. And then
these are his top people. He's gonna in
in concert with them come to a policy
decision,
>> collaborative effort,
>> a collaborative effort. And remember
that the CIA is not a policy
organization. It is a policy support
organization.
George W. Bush did something that was
very, very controversial. Just as I was
leaving the agency in the president's
daily brief, which is, you know, six
days a week, 16 pages, the the first
article is a full page. After that,
there are a couple of articles of a
paragraph of fact and a paragraph of
analysis.
Um, he ordered the CIA to put a
paragraph of fact, a paragraph of
analysis, and a paragraph entitled
policy recommendation.
>> Well, that flies in the face of
everything that the CIA is. You're
supposed to be the one that makes the
policy, not the CIA. The CIA can tell
you what the facts are and what the
facts likely mean, but then you make a
decision. That only lasted for George W.
Bush's second term and then it went back
to its normal state of equilibrium.
My point being,
sure, Donald Trump is the last person.
But then Trump told 60 Minutes, not most
in the mo most recent um interview, the
one before, when asked, "Who are your
closest adviserss?" He said, "I don't
have any. I just go with my gut." And
we've not had a president like that
before.
>> God, that is a bold mission statement.
>> Yeah, it is. It's very, very bold, very
gutsy.
>> Yeah. Another thing like to see what do
you mind searching to see when those
NIEs were NIE on Iran the Iran nuclear
program.
>> I tell you what I would like to have
looked at very deeply perhaps rewritten
is the authorized use of military force.
>> That's a tall order. It's a
>> see but here again you've got
manipulated and bent every president
since its inception.
>> Yes. And you've got these cowards on
Capitol Hill. We got 20
>> 2007 and 2003. I thought it was three
and nine. Three and seven.
>> Yeah. The AUMF provides
some immense latitude.
>> It's uh
sometimes I'll get online and people
think I'm arguing or uh what was the
term somebody used? They called me
pedantic. So I had to look that I had to
look that one up cuz they're like we're
at war. I'm like no we're not.
>> No we're not.
>> And we're not. And the point is, isn't
that [__] ridiculous?
>> Yes.
>> That we can do this. They what they
think, again, I had to look up the word
pedantic, and now I try to use it every
day because it's really good. But
>> somebody called me mercurial the other
day.
>> That's a good one, too.
>> I had to look it up.
>> Yeah. But it's it baffles me that we can
do every action that looks exactly like
warfare.
>> Yeah.
>> But not as a country declared as war.
And again, it's it's a way where actions
can be taken without the oversight that
I want to see.
>> Unacceptable.
>> But and then people like, "Oh, it's a
political." But guess what? Your team
captain did the ex. He bent the [__] out
of this, too.
>> That's right.
>> Blue and red, they manipulated the [__]
out of this.
>> We have not declared war on on anybody
since
>> Vietnam.
>> No, we never declared war.
>> No, I'm sorry. Since before Vietnam.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It was World War II. Yeah.
On December 8th, we declared war on
Japan. And the next day, we declared war
on Germany. And that's it. That was the
last time. Even Korea wasn't a war. It
was a police action. What do you think
it would take to change that thing? I
don't think Well, first off, I don't
think people realize the powers that it
provides and the off-ramp,
>> at least in the short term, to oversight
that are foundational documents were
written upon.
>> Why would we want that?
>> I know, right? The Constitution is so
crystal clear on these issues. It it
makes the executive, the legislative,
and the judicial branches of government
co-equal
branches. Co-equal. And then you have
these clowns like Lindsey Graham saying,
"I want to make Congress weaker."
It's like, "Are you out of your mind?"
An argument could be made. Yes, there's
a lot of stuff that we could say about
Lindsey Graham.
>> For clarity, an argument can be made
about me as well on that. It's, you
know, you know, there's strong arguments
and weaker arguments, but
>> I don't Yeah.
>> I And people national security,
>> safety, what's the saying? Somebody
willing to sacrifice liberty for
security is is worthy.
>> Deserves neither.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> I have never seen the government give
the power back.
>> No. Ever. Ever. it we have to come to
some catastrophe
like that which resulted in the in the
uh church committee before there's any
real change like structural change.
>> Yeah. And then is the system so far
outgrown or so far outside of the lines
that they're supposed to color in
>> could it even be put back in or
reoriented back in? I don't know the
answer to that. You know, it's different
now, too, than it was in 1975 just
because of the state of technology.
Like, how do you put that genie back in
the bottle?
>> I love the shorts of you on the diary of
the CEO just blowing people's minds with
what the agency can do.
>> I mean, Vault 7,
>> all of that's public. How is it that
nobody paid any attention to that?
>> It's all public.
>> We only think that they're doing it to
our enemies.
>> Yeah. And then the reality is that's not
true.
>> No, they can do it to all of us.
>> How do Okay, how does somebody survive
in an electronic world? Like what? How
does
>> you know we got to all turn into Ted
Kazinski is what is what it comes down
to. You live in a shack in Idaho.
>> Yeah. No, I think it was Montana.
>> Montana.
>> Yeah. Somebody bought his shack. They
have it I think as their like lawnmower
storage.
>> Oh my god. Can you imagine?
>> Yeah. I can't get behind the bombing
campaign. But under like going on like a
little tech break, I totally understand.
>> Yeah, I get it.
>> But even then, in a world where
everybody is defined by their
technological usage, just like my wife
doing accidental SDRs, you might end up
on their radar because like this guy has
got some amazing fieldcraft. He's a
ghost. Like no, he just hates
>> Yeah, he's a lite. That's all. He's a
lite. Ah, but I mean
>> how do we how do you operate in a world
where they can reach into basically
anything that is powered
>> and take it over?
>> Do you just I mean is it just forced
acceptance? I mean it's not like you and
I can stop it. You can tell as many
people that it is happening as possible.
>> I'm sitting on my cell phone right now
and I know you are too.
>> Oh yeah is with us right? Hello NSA. I
you guys should get a budget increase.
Good job.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I there are a couple of
little things that I've done like uh you
know Tucker Carlson's got this uh or he
advertises this uh cell phone like
encrypted cell phone.
>> Yeah, but I could point you back to the
agency making a cell phone for the
specific usage of invading drug cartels.
>> Well, I don't I don't have one of his
cell phones. You're exactly right. I
don't want to have a cell phones, but it
got me to thinking. And so, um, I went I
I went to an electronic store in Europe
and I just bought a cell phone and I was
able to register it in in another name
and I have a spare SIM card. I can pop
out my SIM card, pop this one, and this
is registered in a Middle Eastern
country. So, wherever I happen to be,
I'll just go into the local version of
Radio Shack or or Best Buy or whatever.
>> Yeah.
>> And I'll buy a I'll buy a burner phone
or I'll buy a SIM card and swap them
out.
>> But even that's not going to
>> Yeah.
>> really protect me in the long run.
>> Yeah. That'll give you that give you a
little bit of a head start. They're
going to find you a
>> little bit. Oh, they'll find
>> especially with the computing power.
>> That That's another one. Like
>> I mean 25 years ago, that's how we got
out as a beta.
>> Yeah. He he made one single mistake. He
he accessed his emails with a landline.
>> John, that was it. I was killing people
because of their SIM cards.
>> See, 2005.
>> I mean,
>> they learned though. They learned quick.
>> Yeah, they did.
>> And we adapted. But yeah, it's, you
know, these NSA databases and and just
data farms that are showing up in odd
locations and it's like, oh, every
single like, we're not looking through
it, though. We're just storing it,
>> right?
>> Yeah. You're not looking now.
>> Yeah. Then why do you need this gigantic
facility in Utah that you've built?
Because we might need to look at it
later.
>> Yeah.
>> And then depending on who's throwing
>> without a warrant, by the way,
>> that's the biggest thing that bugs me
that I either the Constitution matters
or it doesn't. Either it means something
to be an American. And I truly still
believe that we can be a beacon to the
world, but we don't do that by hiding
our missteps. We have to be honest about
where we have fallen short. And we have
to learn from our mistakes.
>> And that last one right there, I'm not
so sure that we're actually doing.
>> I have to agree. I have to agree. It's
like we reinvent the wheel every time we
elect a new president.
>> Yeah. And that's where I landed. I don't
think this is a top down fix. I think
it's a bottomup fix. Generational.
>> Mhm.
>> And I I have uh three children. I have
my daughter I'm getting ready to get
into birthday season. So I'll have 18,
21, and 23.
>> Wonderful.
>> They're fantastic. I'm loving their
skepticism and
>> good.
>> Yeah, it's it's healthy. I don't I don't
like throw fire on it and like fashion
them like tinfoil berets or anything
like that, but
>> I I like it. Michael's an example, too.
I mean, he's 23 years old. He's, you
know, his views of the world and the way
he thinks about things and his response
to what he is seeing being put out
nationally and globally. I ask him about
it all the time
>> because he also has a different optic
than you and I have had based off of our
previous careers. And Mhm.
>> The answers are very informative. The
pendulum, I don't know if we have like
bounced off of where it's swinging to,
but it is going to come back.
>> It has to.
>> And I think the country will survive.
I'm not saying a tire or two might not
go off the track, but
>> I think we're going to be okay, right?
>> Because of what I see from the younger
generation.
>> Good.
>> I'm hopeful.
>> I am, too.
>> Maybe I'm being too incredibly
optimistic, dude. But on that note, I
mean, there's such a difference between
the price and the cost.
>> I mean, when you signed up to serve at
the agency,
>> you pay that price. And it's the same
thing as military service. You know how
long you're going to enlist for, and you
know that there's risk associated with
that.
>> The cost though
>> is everything you can never calculate.
The strain on family, the time away. How
has everything that has happened to you
like
and I'm sure it's changed over time but
like with your children
>> how how did it impact them or your
relationship with them? It
>> it was devastating.
>> Yeah.
>> I have five children. I have four boys
and a girl. Boy, boy, boy, girl, boy.
Um, four of them don't speak to me
>> still to this day.
>> One I'm very close to. We speak almost
every day. um and then start at the time
where you uh I mean
>> yeah I was still in
>> well and the reason I I mean you have
talked on so many large platforms about
a lot of the things that you did in the
agency so I'd rather just talk to you as
a person you know what I mean and so
people can go and re go watch Diary of
the CEO and just watch when he talked to
him about how they can turn the speaker
on a TV into a microphone I'm like oh
yeah they definitely can do that and
he's just like what I'm like yeah dude
they got you
I thought everybody knew that you and I
knew that a lot of people don't want to
believe they have those abilities. So,
people can go reference that. But, you
know, to me, I I had a time period when
I was going through my divorce where I
lost 18 months with my oldest son. Very
close now. I think our relationship is
better.
>> Thank God.
>> Well, and I hope that that can be the
case for you with your other kids.
>> I'm optimistic.
>> Did the relationship break when things
started becoming public about what had
happened with you at the agency?
>> Yes.
>> God damn.
>> Yes. Yeah. I'll get there. I I'm
optimistic.
>> Yeah. People often accuse me of being
irrationally optimistic, overly
optimistic, but I prefer to live my life
like that. And I I'm I'm hopeful and
relatively confident that things are
going to work out.
>> How old are they?
>> Uh 33, 30,
>> 21, 19, and 14.
>> I think sometimes
they have to get their own laps around
the sun.
>> It's uh
>> agreed.
I there are I understand
yet don't agree with the criticism of
what you did by coming forward. I
understand the people that say that in
my opinion I wish there were more people
who were like you who were serving in
the agency. Thank you very much.
>> Because I saw it firsthand, you know,
and we were often times the action arm
of the intelligence and air.
>> Very much so.
>> And
>> you were
>> and it's not perfect and everybody's
doing the best that they can, but to me
it's it's a rare thing to be issued the
flag of your country and not rented, you
know, or or go buy it on a t-shirt,
which everybody can do what they want
to, but it has to mean something to me.
>> And uh and from people the outside, they
can criticize what you did because they
don't have an understanding of it. And
more importantly, they don't have a skin
in the game.
>> No, they don't.
>> And you know, I say I'm not I'm not
trying to [__] on people, but
>> any slob can roll out of bed and write a
nasty comment on a YouTube page.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I I try hard just to ignore all that
noise.
>> Remember this, Joe has said this many
times. He's never encountered somebody
in life who is living an enriching,
successful, joyfilled life that spends
their time being an [__] on the
internet.
>> Ah, that's that's great.
>> I mean, it really helps you reenter.
>> And often times now, I will respond to
people
>> and just say, "Listen, I don't know
what's going on in your life,
>> but I truly hope that whatever it is
that you're dealing with gets better."
Because people who are doing well, they
don't act like this. Most of the time
you'll get a middle finger emoticon.
>> But I hope that it I hope that it sticks
with them. And it goes to the point
>> Yeah.
>> about the kids
more laps and more context.
If you can keep showing them who you
are, I think you're going to be
>> I think you're right. And and I'm very
hopeful in that respect. And I've I've
also
made very clear to every one of them
that I'm a phone call away.
>> Mhm.
>> That's all they have to do.
>> I did the same thing with my son, too.
And one day the phone rang
>> and it changed everything.
>> That That's what I'm hoping for.
>> That 18 months felt like about 18
decades.
>> Yes.
>> For clarity.
>> Um and it was it was all tied around
that time period of that divorce. But
and I get it. He was the oldest,
probably the most impacted by it. had a
had a processing ability that probably
let him go down just a mental rabbit
holes of the wise and the that's just
the five W's, you know.
>> Um,
>> good. All you
>> I'm glad that happened for for both of
you.
>> All you can do and the only thing I
could do was consistently
be the best version, try to be the man
that I wanted to be, which I still fall
short every day.
>> But to show him that example,
>> they'll come back around, man.
>> They'll come back around. God willing,
I'm hopeful. Families are a bastard. You
know, I wonder too if if it's something
about this generation specifically. I've
I've tried to do as much reading about
family estrangement as I can. There are
a lot of really good books out there
right now.
>> It's a really common issue, actually.
>> And that's exactly what I was going to
say. I I saw something on the news just
yesterday saying that 25% of all
American families are experiencing some
level or form of family estrangement.
And it's easy to think you're alone. I
have a I have a friend. She used to
write to me when I was in prison. She
was a Broadway star from the 60s and now
she's almost 90 years old and we call
each other every few weeks. her son. She
has one child. Her son who's now well
into his 50s, just cut her off like 10
years ago, 12 years ago now, just cold
turkey cut her off.
>> She doesn't have any idea why. She
called me one day and she asked me if I
knew of a good private investigator. I
said, "Oh yeah, I know a very good
private investigator." And I connected
them and she hired him. I didn't ask her
why she wanted him. It was her business.
But he told me all she wanted was a
picture of her granddaughter.
>> She had never met her granddaughter. And
so he kind of, you know, he parked
across the street from the school and um
and figured out who her granddaughter
was and took a picture,
but not a, you know, a minute goes by
that she's not thinking about
>> Yeah.
>> the son that she doesn't understand how
she lost or why she lost and the
granddaughter that she's never met. She
doesn't have very much more time left on
on Earth.
>> Kind of the harder realization is in
that too is that the situation may not
change. It may never change.
>> Yeah. I suspect if it hasn't by now her
husband died, the guy's father and um
and the guy never reacted or responded
in any way.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. It's a it's a real shame, but it's
not uncommon is the point I wanted to
make. It's not uncommon. So, I hope for
the best.
>> Yeah. It's the only advice I am not
somebody to give advice, but it's the
only advice I can give based on my own
experience. It's just to keep you in
you.
>> I'm glad that it worked out for you.
>> It doesn't work out for everybody for
sure. That was uh you want to talk about
a humbling experience that makes you
question who you are as a human being.
>> Yeah. People think buds is hard. I'm
like, so here's what you want to do. You
want to be tougher than a seal. Go
through a contentious divorce.
>> Right. Seriously. Oh my god. Like, stop
researching these selection courses to
go through. Just get a divorce. It's way
harder. Not actual advice that I'm
giving to anybody. This is completely
sarcasm and tongue and cheek, but God,
it will destroy you. It's truly the
hardest thing I've ever done, though.
>> Oh my god. Me, too.
>> Yeah,
>> I wouldn't wish it on my worst enemy.
>> I would agree with that. I would agree
with that. It's uh Man, there's not a
hard drive long enough or big enough to
encapsulate my thoughts on that process.
But
>> and I'll tell you another thing, Andy,
is, you know, when you go some through
something like this, you really get to
see who your friends are.
>> Yes.
>> Including people that you share blood
with, you know, including people that
you may be married to or otherwise, you
know, engaged to in some way. I I had
one c I have one cousin.
>> He's um he's a good 10 years older than
I am. And when I was a little kid, I
always looked up to him. He was like,
you know, the the big kid, good-looking
Navy pilot.
And um when I got arrested, uh he called
me and he said, "Listen, I got to cut
you off." I was like, "What? What are
you talking about?" He said, "You
brought shame to our family." And I
said, "You think I didn't read about you
in the Washington Post that you were the
mayor of Alexandria, Virginia's Coke
dealer? You think I didn't know that you
and your guys are standing on the beach
in Florida waiting for the Colombians to
drop the bales of of of weed out of the
plane? I know all about you. And I
brought shame to our family. I said,
"Fuck you." And I've cut him off. Well,
now he's like sending me Facebook friend
requests. Hey, cuz you're really famous
now. Yeah, [__] you. I haven't forgotten
about 2012. Yeah,
>> [__]
I have shifted years ago. Family
actually to me is nothing to do with
DNA.
>> It's treats you.
>> You got that right.
>> Plus, if you go deep enough, people are
like, "Oh, our family's perfect." I'm
like, "Tell me about your grandparents."
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> You go deep enough in every family,
they're like, "We don't really talk
about Uncle Bob that much cuz he's
[__] crazy." I'm like, "We all got
crazy." I had an uncle like that. My
grandmother's brother, I I remember
meeting him. I must have been like 12
the first time I met him and I was like,
"How come I never heard of Uncle Bill?"
Like I said this to my mother. How come
>> how come I never heard of Uncle Bill?
How is he my uncle? Oh, he's your
grandmother's brother. How come I've
never met him? He lives here in the same
town. How come I never met him? And she
said, "When you get a little older, I'll
explain it to you." Well, I'm like 15.
And she finally explains to me he he was
one of the American soldiers who
liberated Dao concentration camp at the
end of the Second World War. And it made
him nuts, right? See how it couldn't?
>> So, yeah. Seriously. So, he came back
with what today we know as PTSD. Back
then they called it shell shock and all
different kinds of things.
>> In 1953,
he had been home for eight years. He
somehow got it into his head that
Richard Nixon, who had just been uh
elected vice president,
promised him a job at the post office in
Stubenville, Ohio.
>> Sounds reasonable.
>> Yeah. So, he puts on his suit. Monday
morning, he goes to the post office.
He's here for his job.
It's very sad. I mean, I laugh, but it's
sad. I'm laughing with him, not at him,
sort of.
>> And they're like, "Who are you?" He
said, "I'm I'm Bill. I'm here for my
job." They're like, "We don't know what
you're talking about." And he said,
"That damn Nixon. I'm going to get him."
6 months later, Nixon comes to
Stubenville to give a speech. Complete
serendipity
and Uncle Bill tries to get into the
civic center with a 45.
>> Oh no.
>> And they get him. And my mom said, I'll
never forget these words. She said
there, but for the grace of God, our
name could have been Oswald.
And then, how did Uncle Bill die? He got
hit by a train. And I said to my mom, I
was in college at the time. It was on
the front page of the paper. I was like,
how do you not hear a train coming? And
she's like, you know, this is one of
those things that's better just left un
uh unresolved.
Yeah, trains are really deadly, but also
if you don't go on the tracks, you have
a real good chance.
>> Yeah, maybe stay off the tracks.
Especially when those arms come down and
the red lights are flashing. You might
want to stay off the tracks.
>> Indeed. Have you heard the latest
narrative around the XCIA?
I don't know what they call officers,
agents. Um, this is a new one. I heard
you guys. At first, the CIA was like,
"Oh, no. They're telling all the
secrets." But now, people think, some
people think that the CIA is actually
trying to help you get on shows because,
>> oh, we're friends again, are we?
>> You can sew misinformation. So, now
you're not a whistleblower anymore. Now
you're a knowing and witting mouthpiece
of the agency.
>> Wow. And they came up with that all by
themselves.
>> Somebody did on the internet. Bam.
Monte's name was in there as well, and
some uh a couple other people. I didn't
recognize their names as much. But
that's an interesting shift in thought
process. I'll tell you, there is
literally nothing that I hate more than
when people say, "Once CIA, always CIA."
Okay. Very movie based.
>> Yeah. I'm going to call Ed Snowden and
the sons of Philip Agy and Ray McGovern
and tell them that you think because of
your incredible [__] intellect that
they're still in the CIA. and I'm in the
CIA. Well, that was that prison
sentence. That was cover. They that was
that was so you could establish cover.
It's like that is just great.
>> And then go on a podcast circuit so you
can just be the mouthpiece for the
agency,
>> right?
>> Do you think the agency is [__]
>> No, not anymore.
>> Do you think that they have people who
pay attention or
>> Sean Ryan posted a picture that he got
they he got an advertising request for
the agency? They were
>> Are you kidding me? I swear it was on
his social media. It was an ad buy
request from the agent I'm like, "You
should definitely take that money."
>> Yeah.
>> And do the shittiest read. That's
terrible.
>> I tell you, just in the last 8 weeks, I
mean, on my own podcast, I I've been
doing a lot of, you know, do you have
gold in your IRA? Go to johnloves.com
or
>> um running low on ivormectin all family
pharmacy.
You get 10% off the deal, man.
>> What are you gonna do? So when
>> lights don't pay for themselves.
>> Exactly. So eight weeks ago when things
started going nuts for me, all of a
sudden I'm getting calls from, you know,
Tom Ford eyeglasses and, you know, this
company and that company and a vineyard
in Napa. It's very cool. There was one I
turned down out of hand.
It was for a generic maker of Viagra.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. No big deal. People take Viagra. I
don't, but maybe some people do. But
they wanted me to do this commercial
with an only fans model. And they wanted
Tell me more.
>> They wanted me to say being with her is
not torture.
And I said, hold on. How much were they
offering?
>> Don't actually say I'm joking. I said I
said, "Am I a clown for you? That's what
you think this all boils down to? I'm
here for your amusement."
>> Yeah.
>> To them, it was a joke. The
>> Yeah. It's all a big joke.
>> The moral stand that you took to them.
>> Yeah.
For clarity, I did do some funny ads for
blue chew dick pills because they gave
me full creative license and I did like
a 13minute ad read one time. I wo it
into his story.
>> 13 minute it was like the end of it was
it was like oh and then an Amazon guy
rung the doorbell like ding-dong. I'm
like if your dong isn't being the ding
that you want it to be was awesome.
>> It was based in real life. It was the
opening of it. I just completely lost
myself in the story and I just left it
in there. That's a gift. That's a gift.
I will say this Kashmir sweater is by
Quint.
>> Yeah.
>> And Quint is one of my sponsors on John
Kuryaku's Deadrop, which you can find on
Apple Podcast. I'm proud to say I am in
the top onetenth of 1% of all of the 2
million podcasts on Apple Podcast.
>> It's fantastic. I don't know how it
happened.
>> Um, in fact, this this
>> you kept getting your message out there
and you kept being yourself.
>> Thank you for that.
>> I mean, honestly, that's the answer to
it. So Quint reached out to me and said,
you know, we we want to give you $150 to
buy whatever you want on the Quint uh
web page and then just be honest and
just talk for 60 seconds about about
what uh what you think about the
product. So I go online. I didn't have
this color of olive green. This is the
nicest cashmere anything that I've ever
owned. Sometimes Kashmir is very thin.
There's not much to it because it's so
soft. This is substantial. It's thick
and it's the softest thing I've ever
owned. I wear it all the time. And now
I've gone back to the Quint website with
my own money and spent another thousand
bucks just because I can't believe how
high quality these these clothes are.
Plus, when you think cashmere, you think
CIA officer.
>> Well, I'll tell you what, a lot.
>> You need to have some other
>> Yeah, the patches. That's only if you're
an analyst.
A lot of Kashmir around the world comes
from Pakistan. And so when I was in
Pakistan, I'm getting, you know, emails
from everybody in my family like, can
you get me a Kashmir sweater? Can you
get me a Kashmir scarf? So I come home
with a suitcase full of just Kashmir to
give away to people. Well, I can't go to
Pakistan and buy Kashmir. I got to pay,
you know, US prices. I'm happy to pay it
if it's this kind of quality.
>> Yeah. When brands reach out to me like
that, what I always do is I never take
their 150 or whatever it is.
>> If it's a brand that I'm interested in,
I'll make my initial purchase with my
card just because I want to be clean.
Yeah.
>> And then I can actually give them legit
feedback. And now later on, if they want
to enter into an advertising
relationship, I'll take your money.
>> That is a very good idea.
>> It's like, I'll take your money, but I
I'm going to enter into this like, let
me let me be a paying customer first.
Let me get that experience. How's the
last eight weeks been when it just like
did you just wake up one morning and
you're like I I somehow I'm sitting on a
rocket ship
>> quite literally. I happen to be in Dubai
and um and my niece called me from New
Hampshire and she says, "Uncle John,
you're blowing up on TikTok." I said,
"Why?" And she said, "I don't know." And
then one day later, I get a call from a
major
global talent agency and the guy says,
"Tell me you're not represented." And I
said, "I'm not represented, but I don't
understand why this is happening."
>> Mhm.
>> And then a couple days after that, I get
a call from a reporter at Wired
magazine, and she wants to interview me
about my new new found Tik Tok fame. I
said, "How did this start?" I don't
really understand why it's happen.
>> It's tough to go upstream and actually
figure out that origin as well, too.
>> She figured it out. It was Diary of a
CEO,
which is funny because, well, first off,
they could make his facial expressions
to some of your answers are memes in and
of themselves. It's like Stephen pick
the job just a little bit. He was so
much fun. First of all, he is he's so
incredibly bright. and had such
insightful questions. It wasn't just
John telling stories. He had he he posed
questions that I had never been asked to
answer
>> before. It was much more philosophical
than a normal, you know, John telling
stories kind of podcast. Um, but there
was a kid, there's a sophomore at the
University of Texas who took that
interview and chopped it up into shorts
so that each short was a story. He gave
me an Alvin and the Chipmunk's voice and
then the punch line would be in this
ogre's voice, you know, and then I
killed the janitor. That kind of thing.
And then laser beams are shooting out of
my eyes. And you know, for a second I
thought, should I be offended? Offended
that they're like they're turning this
into something so light-hearted. I was
talking about serious issues here.
Torture. This whole thing about hummus.
This was about a torture technique. And
then I thought, now I've got a sense of
humor, too. I'm going with it.
>> It'll lead more people to your actual
messaging.
>> And that's exactly what has happened.
>> Yeah.
>> And then I I was approached literally
the next day by Cameo. Um it's an app
where, you know, you can commission
D-list celebrities like me uh to say
happy birthday or, you know, I have
endorsed more kids for 11th grade class
president than you can shake a stick at.
Do you have do you end everyone with
remember the agency is always watching?
Sometimes I just go
if they only knew the truth.
But I gotta say it has been so much fun.
It has opened up doors for me that I
never imagined would ever open. And I,
you know, I like to write books. I my
ninth book is coming out in uh in uh
June. And how do you enjoy the I just
had a book come out April 14th.
Congratulations.
>> It's hard work.
>> I was going to say, how did you possibly
enjoy that process enough to do it nine
times?
>> You know what it is? I stopped writing
for other people and started writing for
myself. My first That makes a lot of
sense.
>> My first seven books were about the CIA
and a whole bunch of them were
commissioned. I wrote the first two. The
first two was The Reluctant Spy, My
Secret Life in the CIA's War and Terror.
Did really well. Made number five on the
New York Times bestsellers list. The
second one was doing time like a spy.
How the CIA taught me to survive and
thrive in Prison. And that won two
literary awards. I wrote it in longhand
on on legal pads at prison. And at the
end of each day of writing, because the
guards would tear them up and throw them
in my face, I would mail them back to my
attorney and mark them legal mail so
they couldn't intercept them.
>> Um,
>> the agency was definitely reading them
before you
>> 100%. 100%. That's why I always
>> It would look like a clean envelope by
the time it got to your attorney. Well,
you know, a couple
>> there's going to be some eyes on those
things.
>> A couple of people wrote back to me and
said, "Hey, your last letter was
discreetly slit on the side of the
envelope." So, I went down to the
lieutenant's office one guy one day and
I said, "You guys, you act like you're
[__] geniuses and you're not. You're
dopes." I said, "Listen, if you want to
read what I have to say, you don't have
to slit the side of the envelope open
and then tape it up like nobody's going
to notice that. What you do is you
unfold a paper clip. You put it in the
top of the envelope so that it hooks the
paper and then you just turn the paper
paper clip so that it it's a nice tight
roll and then you pull it out. Then you
can read it and then you roll it back up
and put it back in the envelope. I said,
"Seriously, I have to explain it to
you."
>> Yeah. These these are rookie techniques.
You guys are trash.
>> Rookie day one [__]
>> But you know what? That reminds me of
something I wanted to tell you.
Saturday,
I'm driving. It's early in the morning.
I'm driving to George Washington
University. It was a day of TED talks.
And I love TED talks. I did one there
years ago. It was so much fun. So, I'm
going to the TED talk. My phone rings
and it's kind of early. It's like 8:00
or just before 9, and it's a it's a
number I didn't recognize. So I answer
it and the guy says
um he gives me his name and he is a
he's the head of a I'll just say it. So
he's the he's the director of the Bureau
of Prisons and I said oh I said to what
do I owe the pleasure of a call from the
director of the Bureau of Prisons? He
says you have been talking [__] about
the Bureau of Prisons for 10 years. And
I go, "Correction. I've been talking
[__] about the Bureau of Prisons for 13
years."
>> Yeah. Get your number straight.
>> I know, buddy.
>> Yeah.
>> And he says, "Thus the reason for my
call." He said, "When you talk [__] you
always follow it up with a proposed
solution."
And I said, "Yeah." I said, "You're
corrupt and your people are stupid and
your entire uh bureau is broken." and he
says, "The president has mandated that I
completely
uh recreate the Bureau of Prisons. I
want to reorganize it. I want to revamp
it. And I want to know if you would be
willing to be a uh a member of an
advisory committee."
>> I think we call that coming full circle.
>> I think so, too. I jumped at it. I said,
"Absolutely, yes. When do you want to
see me?" He says, "Wednesday." I said,
"Done. I'll be there." And then he
says,"Can you recommend somebody who
would be really good?" And I said,
'Absolutely, yes. I said, 'He's got an
Italian last name that is going to be
easily recognizable,
but he did 17 years and he shouldn't
have done 17 days. And how he's been
able to maintain his humanity, I have no
idea. I said, he'll he'll set you
straight. Yeah,
man. What do you want to do with the
notoriety as it builds? like what what
are you looking at in your runway in
front of you? What do you want to do
with the attention? Having a platform is
an amazing thing.
>> It's amazing. I can't believe it.
>> Yeah,
>> thanks for that question. Um, a couple
of things. Number one, I've been talking
about these same issues since 2007.
>> Yeah,
>> they're really, really important to me.
Human rights, civil rights, civil
liberties, transparency, and government.
This stuff traction.
>> I think so, too. So, number one, I want
to keep talking to to increasingly large
audiences.
Um,
I really love writing. I I love it and I
love that people enjoy my books. I I
love that people enjoy hearing the
stories. The stories are all true, which
is why they've gained traction, I think.
So, I want to continue writing for
bigger and bigger audiences. Since 2007,
I've had a hobby where I write
television pilots. It's fun. And I've
been blessed since 2007 to have sold
eight of them in Hollywood. Yeah.
>> And so now I've got I've got meetings
scheduled over the next two or three
weeks with household names.
>> Well, now that you have representation
>> And now I have representation.
I mean, these are like multiple Oscar
winners.
>> Oh, that's amazing. reaching out,
exchanging ideas. I'm all in. I love it.
Uh and
you know, I'm not ashamed to finally,
for the first time in my life, make a
couple of bucks. I I I'm tired of being
poor. I'm tired of renting. It's It's
time to
It's time to ramp up my my level of
existence. I don't think anybody out
there is not involved in that struggle
too.
>> Some of them talk about it a little bit
more than others, but yeah, everybody is
trying to make as much as they can
>> in a world that seems where the scarcity
model is uh approaching for everyone.
>> Yes. Yeah. I'm tired of it.
>> Yeah. It's uh Oh man, people think, you
know, to say don't join the military. I
mean, financial stability, yes. For the
1st and the 15th, like your check is
going to come even when the government
shuts down.
>> Yeah.
>> But that check may not be as big as you
want it to be.
>> Exactly. And you know these [__]
Obama people, they confiscated my
pension in 2012. So I I've got nothing.
I have literally nothing.
>> Yeah.
>> And so I've got to make that up now.
>> I think you're on a trajectory though
where you might look back at the number
of that pension.
>> Yeah.
>> And
even if they offered it to you.
>> Yeah. Maybe it's better that I don't
take it. If you're in a if you're in a
place where it was offered to you,
I think the more powerful move is to
say, "Fuck you."
>> Mhm. And you're measly $3,000 a month.
>> You can I mean, it's one of the
misconceptions or the things that I
maybe not a misconception, but people
don't realize, especially coming out of
the world that I was in in the military.
This is all I'm going to do. This is all
that I can do. And that's a very
self-limiting ideology.
>> Yes. Oh, you're exactly right.
>> But then you get out and if you can
break yourself from that ideology,
>> the opportunities that present
themselves to you, you would I of all
the things I do now, literally, people
don't believe me. If if you had given me
an unlimited amount of time in the years
before I exited the military, not a
single thing that I do now, the coffee
shop, what I didn't even drink coffee
till I was 27 years old. That was
seriously the best mocha I've ever had
in my life. When I took the first sip, I
was like, "Oh my god, this is
fantastic." It's Montana. So, we do a
sprinkle of meth in there just to get
you coming back for the second one.
No, it wouldn't have been on there
hosting a podcast. The world I came
from, just like the world you came from,
be like, "I'm sorry. I'm going to
willingly put myself on camera and put
my thoughts out on the internet to be
destroyed by Nope. You are exactly like
I was where at the agency they the part
of the culture is that they convince you
that your skills are so specific that
you can't do anything else. for us, you
move from the agency into a defense
contractor. For you, you move into, you
know, Blackwater, some kind of
contracting, and that's just simply not
true. You and I, when we were walking
over here, um, I mentioned that, first
of all, God bless Cameo. Seriously, I I
actually, this is how nuts it is. For
the last 8 weeks, I have set my alarm
every morning for 4:00 a.m. Every
morning.
>> Take it easy, Joo. And I I I answer
cameos from 4:00 to 7. And then starting
at 7:00, I do my normal day because
otherwise I can't catch up. Yeah. And
I'm afraid of, you know, this all just
going away one day overnight like
flipping a switch like somebody flipped
a switch to start it in the first place.
So my sister and I bought a laundromat
and uh now I won't be completely uh you
know poor even if it does go away. This
is what I have realized in my life
through the
technical term would be excessive amount
of failures that I have stumbled my way
through voluous if you will. You figure
out a way. Yeah, it did. I I've finally
at a place in my life where I worry less
about the opportunities that are going
to come because I know that they will
and I find that I'm more receptive to
them by just kind of letting go of the
res
>> and playing the field as it presents
itself to me instead of trying to mold
the chess board into the which I've been
wrong. You're right. I've been wrong
every time. I've tried to force the
world into the chess moves that I think
>> yeah I mean it took me 48 years to
figure this out and for clarity I
haven't figured it out completely. Maybe
I'm just learning a little bit more from
my mistakes, but dude, you're going to
figure it out.
>> Even if it turns off tomorrow,
>> you're still going to figure it out
because you've put the volume of work
in. And that I think is
>> that's the difference between
>> people who are truly success. There are
of course black swan events where
somebody will become instantaneously
famous for something. Good luck scaling
that across
>> any generational.
>> Look at this Hakua girl, right? She
>> didn't go too great for her. No, she was
a giant for like 2 weeks and then gone.
>> I don't know why anybody would take
advice from her financially. Like the
memecoin thing, you didn't you really
thought that one was going to be like a
solid 401k investment strategy?
>> That that's where you want to put your
hard-earned dollars.
>> Yeah. I mean, life is self-critiquing in
many ways. It's like numchucks. If
you're not ready for them, you're going
to break your nose.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's exactly right.
>> You're it's you're going to figure it
out, man. The more work you have put in,
it's the overnight tenure of success.
You're going to start getting people now
like, "Oh, must be nice, John. Must be
nice." And it's like, first off, a if
you really want to piss them off, say,
"It's actually nicer than you think it
could be."
And then B, it just that twists them off
a little bit. Like, you actually don't
even have the imagination to understand
how nice it is, but they're never going
to see the hard work. No,
>> they're just going to see that you have
arrived at a place where they want to
be, and they want to knock it down a
little bit.
Several friends of mine have told me
that that they've never met anybody who
works as hard as I do. And it's actually
the key to success.
>> It is the hack culture that we live in.
You can hack a lot of things, but you
can't hack hard work.
>> You can't. And I I don't sleep very
much. I don't really have any hobbies.
All I do is work.
>> Mhm. And it this started off during CO.
Well, I mean, I've always worked hard,
but especially during CO, I had a lot of
trouble sleeping. And I thought, well, I
can lay here in bed and stare at the
ceiling, or I can go downstairs and
write an oped and make $400. And so, I
started with the op-eds. And then, oh, I
started saying mo most of my books, my
first seven books were about the CIA or
something having to do with the CIA. And
then during COVID, um, I thought, no,
you know what? I've ever since I was a
little boy, I've loved cemeteries,
exploring cemeteries. I love the
architecture. I love the symbolism of
the stones or what's on the stones, but
I especially love the fact that
literally everybody has a story. So, I'm
not talking about the most famous
people. I'm talking about interesting
people. Um, I was 9 years old. I told my
mom one day, we lived about a mile from
a cemetery, and I said, "I'm going to go
down to the cemetery and look for
salamanders." So, I took an empty shoe
box. So, I went down the cemetery. I
found a salamander under a rock. I put
them in the box with some grass. And
when I got home, she said, "Did you find
any salamanders?" And I said, "Yeah, I
found one under a rock. It was next to a
gravestone that had a badge on it." And
she said, "What kind of badge?" And I
said, "It said Congressional Medal of
Honor." And she said, "Oh, that's a
hero. We should go to the library and
see what he did."
So, we went to the library and we we
were regulars at the library anyway, but
we found that he was a farmer from my
hometown and in the battle of u oh shoot
Battle of the Wilderness. Was it Battle
of Petersburg? He captured the
Confederate battle flag.
>> Damn.
>> And got the Congressional Medal of
Honor. Came back home, farmed until uh
1878 and died.
And she said to me, I'll never forget
it. She said, "You see, everybody has a
story. You don't have to be famous to
have a story." So, I've been to 73
countries, and probably 70 of those
countries, I've been to a cemetery. And
I decided to write a cemetery book about
the cemeteries of Washington, DC. So, I
go online during co I'm looking and it's
there were like two dozen books about
Arlington National Cemetery. And I
learned that nobody had ever written a
book about the cemeteries of Washington
DC.
>> Well, there are fascinating people
buried in Washington.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I wrote the first book and it comes
out in June and then I followed it up. A
funny thing is I sent it to my
publisher. It's uh Simon and Schustster.
And I said, "Look, I know you guys don't
normally publish books like this, but
this was important to me. Could you take
a look at it?" And I told him what it
was, the editor. and he's like, "Yeah,
we don't really do books like this, but
all right, I I'll pass it around." He
calls me two weeks later and he says,
"This is the best book you've ever
written." And they want to commission
four more. I said, "Oh, what do they
want?" So, I finished, it's in editing
now, um, Whispers in the Dirt, the Mafia
Graves of New York City.
>> Oh, damn.
>> I think that's going to be a good one.
And they went one on America's most
notorious serial killers, one on the
historic cemeteries of Chicago, and one
on the country western graves of
Nashville.
That's a real broad spectrum there.
>> Mhm.
>> I like the serial killers one.
>> I think so, too.
>> My wife is slightly disturbed by the
number of documentaries that I'll watch
about serial killers.
>> I'm addicted. And she's like, "What is
it that you addicted?"
>> She's like, "What is it that you get out
of these?" I'm like, "I'm not sure, but
I really can't turn it off." Buddy,
there was a serial killer in my housing
unit uh when I was in prison. We called
him Truck. He was a long-distance truck
driver.
>> And in the days before DNA testing, he
would pick up prostitutes at truck stops
and have sex with them and then strangle
them, drive another hour and then just
throw their bodies out of the out of the
truck.
>> So, he strangled a 16-year-old
prostitute and she survived and she
identified him and the truck and he was
arrested. that he got 40 years for
reasons that will never be clear to me.
He constantly sought my approval. He
started off like, "So, you were CIA?"
And I said, "Yeah." He goes, "I was CIA,
too. I was I used a shrimp boat to
smuggle a shrimp." He specifically said,
"A shrimp boat to smuggle weapons to the
Angolan rebels." I go, "Get the [__] out
of here." A shrimp boat forest gump.
>> Yeah, exactly. A shrimp boat. I go, "Get
the [__] out of here." And that just
made him like seek my approval more. He
had these rotten nubs for teeth.
>> So, he would say stuff like, "Hey, John.
Uh, I know that you like the Steelers
and the Steelers are are on TV this
Sunday. I saved you a seat in the uh in
the TV room." I'm like, "Okay, thanks,
Truck." "Hey, hey, John. I I know you
like classic rock. There's a new classic
rock station, 1600 a.m." I'm like,
"Thanks, Truck."
So there was this other guy at the same
time we called Cat in the Hat cuz he had
this oddly elongated head. It was like a
birth defect. This crazy like you could
project a film on his on his forehead,
you know.
>> And um I had an empty bunk in my cell
and you have to get everybody's
agreement to move into somebody's cell.
And we had a rule in my cell. No
pedophiles. Pedophiles are banned. So I
said to him, he wanted to move into the
bunk. I said, "You a pedophile?" And he
said, 'N no, I'm not a pedophile. I
said, 'What's your uh what's your crime?
And he says, 'Murder for hire.' I said,
'I don't think I like that anymore than
I like the pedophiles.' I said, 'What
were the circumstances of that crime?
And he said, I owed the mob 100 grand. I
couldn't pay it, so I took out a life
insurance policy on my business partner
and I hired a hitman to kill him and I
got caught. And I said, "Let me guess.
You ratted out the hitman." He goes,
"Well, it was either life in prison or
20 years." I said, "No pedophiles, no
rats, so we wouldn't let him in." Well,
he was mad. One day, I hear my name on
the uh on the PA, Kuryaku, Lieutenant's
office. Usually, that means you're going
to solitary. They didn't have the balls
to send me to solitary. So, it turned
out Jake Tapper wanted to interview me
and he had come up to the prison and I
had to sign a waiver and sit for the
interview. So, I'm sitting next to truck
later that afternoon in the uh TV room.
I am 2 feet away from Cat in the Hat. He
does not see me sitting immediately
directly behind him. He's standing at
the computer. There's an internal email
system. I'm sitting there. Truck is
here. I'm here. Cat in the Hat's here.
And he says, Cat in the Hat says to the
guy next to him, "Did you hear that
[__] Kuryaku? He got called down to
the lieutenant's office." He goes, "That
guy's a [__] rat. He went down there
to rat us all out." And I just sat
there. Listen, if you call somebody a
rat,
>> that's a big deal.
>> Oh, blood's going to be spilled.
>> Yeah.
>> And I didn't react in any way. And Truck
says, "That [__] guy just called you
a rat."
And I go, "An hour ago, I heard him call
you a pedophile."
Of course he didn't. I just made it up.
Without saying a single word, truck got
up and beat this guy almost to death.
And this is why, John, you were an
excellent case officer.
>> They had to land a helicopter in the
yard to lifellight him to Pittsburgh.
Truck got five years added to his
sentence.
>> Cat in the Hat was in intensive care for
like six weeks. He finally comes back to
the prison. and he's all [__] up like,
you know,
>> and somebody had told him what had
happened. So he comes up to me like this
and he goes, I I just wanted to say I'm
sorry that I called you a rat. I should
have never said that. I'll never do it
again. And I go, hey, hey. I said, look
at me. I said, so help me, God. If I
ever hear my name cross your lips ever
again, you're dead and you're never
going to see it coming.
And nobody
messed with me. I think we call those
soft skills.
I got called down the lieutenant's
office cuz I just continued watching the
Steelers game like this as as truck is
beating him to death.
>> Yeah.
>> So I get called down. They were like,
"What the [__] were you doing at that
fight?" I go, "What fight?"
>> Checking the score.
>> The fight you were sitting right next TO
THESE GUYS ARE GUYS BEATING the other
guy to death. I said, "I'm watching the
Steelers game. What are you talking
about?" Oh, you're going to tell us that
what we saw on four different cameras
didn't happen. I go, "Yeah, maybe you
were the ones fighting. Do you ever
think of that?" Admit nothing. Deny
everything. Make counter accusations.
>> He's like, "Get the [__] out of my
office."
>> So, you ever miss your old job?
>> Very much.
>> Yeah, I can tell.
So, that's the thing, though. Millions
of dollars spent on people, you can't
always put it all down. that stuff will
be with you for the rest of your life.
And again, they were looking for a
particular type of person that they
could hone and sharpen those skills in.
>> I'll tell you, man, the the Italians
adopted me literally the day I arrived.
And I mean, Italians named Gambino,
Lucasy, Genevese. These are serious
guys. Yeah. I I love them all.
>> I saw two of them last weekend. We have
dinner together. They're awesome. And I
said to one of them, I said, "This
[__] guy, Cat in the Hat," I said,
"I'm taking this guy down." and and a
very senior guy in the Banano family. He
said, 'Are you crazy? He said, 'They're
going to add years onto your sentence.
You're going to end up doing all of them
solitary. And I said, I would never be
so crude as to do it with my own hands.
Who do you think I am? Do you not know
where I come from?
>> Oh my god. You think I don't think about
this stuff in advance?
>> Yeah.
There's a difference between brute
force,
>> that's right,
>> and nonlinear problem solving.
>> In my second book, Doing Time Like a
Spy, I I start off with these 20 life
lessons that I learned at the CIA. And
one of them is let others do your dirty
work. I would never do it myself.
>> Yeah.
>> Why would you? Why take the risk?
>> It's a good question.
>> There there was one uh
>> Go ahead. I got to get you the airport
here.
>> Oh, yeah. I got a little airport. We got
time. one of the Italian guys, he became
my best friend and is still one of my
best friends in the world. It's funny,
you know, you don't go to prison to make
friends, but I made a friend in prison
that that he's like a brother, a brother
to me. And um
we were talking about, you know,
having others do the dirty work. And he
said he said, "That's some [__] up
kind of sociopath stuff right there."
And I said, "Yeah, okay. Yes, you're
right. But the thing is,
if you want to stay safe, and you don't
want to stay safe in solitary, you have
to have others do your dirty work. And
uh it took him a little while, but he
understood. He mentioned to one of the
guards, he said to one of these guards,
this was the the only guard that was
like universally reviled. He was the
only guard that wore a stab vest because
he was genuinely afraid somebody was
going to stab him.
>> Mhm.
>> And he and my buddy said, "Uh, where are
you going to be?" Uh, they would do
these six months rotations in different
housing units. Oh, I'm going to be in
Central One. He said, "Oh, my buddy
John's in Central One." And, um, the
guard says, "The CIA guy, John." And he
said, "Yeah." And the guard says, "I
never [__] with that guy." And my friend
says, "Yeah, why not?" And he said,
'That's all I need. I work eight hours a
day. I go out to my car and CNN's
standing out there. No, thank you.
I said, exactly.
Yeah, it's a deep pool.
Uh, last question for you. There are
people out there who view your old job
as their life's calling. Mhm.
>> What would you say to a young person who
wants to have an impact in the
intelligence community given the
landscape of where I think we both agree
it is at right now?
>> What would you tell them?
>> I would give them the same advice that
my first deputy office director gave me.
He said, "You are going to see things
during the course of your career that
that's going to make your hair stand up.
Things that you cannot abide. But
understand that around year 10 of your
career, you're going to realize that
you're in a position of authority all of
a sudden. You're a branch chief, a
deputy group chief. If your career
really takes off, you're going to be a
group chief. And you can change those
things. He said, "There's always going
to be a CIA. There's nothing that
anybody can do to make it so that there
isn't a CIA anymore. And if you want to
change it, you have to change it from
the inside." He said around year 10, you
can change it from the inside.
>> It's a bottoms up approach as well.
>> Mhm. I think that's the way.
>> I think so, too. God, that's a tough
journey, though.
>> And there are a lot of very bad people
in positions of authority right now.
>> Yeah.
I think there's more out there that are
good though. That I agree with. Yes. And
that's why I still have hope. There are
good people out there. You know, it's
funny, too. There are a lot of people
that just want to go work their day and
then go home, make dinner, and sit with
their family.
>> Yeah.
>> They don't even realize
that they're the kind of people that we
need to affect those changes.
>> Yeah. Sometimes an opportunity presents
itself and you never saw it coming.
>> Agreed. What do you want to leave people
with?
>> Final thoughts. You know, I've been the
last eight or nine weeks, I've been able
to connect with Gen Z. And so, my
message is to Gen Z. It is to tell the
truth because the truth really does set
you free. There are some very
contentious issues that they're going to
experience, confront in their lifetimes.
Be on the right side of those issues. In
the long run, it's all worth it.
>> I couldn't agree more.
Hell yeah, John. Thank you for making
the trip out. So good to see you. This
was fun. Thanks for the invitation.
>> Of course, man. My pleasure.